## Adopt a Design Mindset

Desingin a software system requires us to think about the architecture
from the perspective of different design mindsets, a design mindset
is a way of thinking about the world so that we focus our attention  
on the right details

There are four design mindset: Understand, explore, make, and evalutate
Each design mindset comes with a set of practices. To design the architecture
we'll choose a mindset, pick a practice in that mindset, apply the practice
to learn something new about the architecture and repeat.


### Understand the probelm

In the "understand" mindset we actively seek information from stakholders
and work to describe the problem. The understand mindset is as much
about requirements as it is empathy.


### Explore Ideas

Exploring software architecture means we try combinations of structures
until we find a combination that best promotes desired quality attributes
To find the best mix of structures, we'll need to survey a broad range
of patterns, technologies and development practices. When planning the
architecture we'll spend a lot of time in the exploration mindset.

### Make it real

Make the architecture tangible with models,  
You can make the architecture real by building prototypes, writing
documents, crunching numbers and a variety of other approaches.

### Evaluate Fit

How do you know if a design decision will solve the problem? When
we embrace the evaluate mindset, we determine the fitness of our
design decisions relative to our current understanding.

Evaluation is not an all or none propsition. We can evaluate all or part
of the architecture, even only a single model, concept or idea. The
most common approach is to walk through a piece of architecture with
different scenarios.

==> Think ==> Do ===> Check!

A software system is never finished, it is only released. Since software
is never done, our design approach has no end. Anytime you need to revisit
some aspect of the architecture, whether it's to evolve an existing
design or create something new, the same approach applies.
