# Devise a Design Strategy  

## Find a design that satifies

  - Treat solutions as experiments
  - Focus on reducing risks: constantly worry about what could go wrong

  - Work to simplify problems: Simple problems often have simple solutions.
  There are many ways to simplify the problem. Reducing the number of
  stakeholders will decrease the variety of competing perspectives influencing
  the system.

  - Iterate quickly to learn quickly: The faster we learn, the more we
  can explore and the greater confidence we'll have in our solutions.

  - Think about the probelm and the solution at the same time.  
  The boundary around a problem is created by the solutions that could potentially
  solve it. To understand the probelm, we must explore solutions.


## Decide How much to Design Up Front

Depending on the software system's size, and requirements variability, every
software systems has a design sweet spot, an optimal amount of time to
spend designing architecture before diving into implementation.


### Find the design sweet Sport

 - The bigger the software system, the greater the benefits you'll reap
 from up-front architecture design.

 - Smaller (10KSLOC) software systes gain little from up-front architecture
 planning.

 - Expect violent trashing if you invest littel into architecture design

 - The more you invest in architecture, the less work will be required.


## Create A design Plan

Design plan outline a general strategy for how the tream will spend
their time on architecture.

Things every design plan should include:

    - Stopping conditions for design
    - Requiring design artificacts
    - Time line
    - Top Risks
    - Notional architecture design


The amount fo time spent on design could be hours, days, or even months
depending on the software system. No matter your time horizon, if
we use the four principles of design thinking
