## Dig For Architecturally Significant Requirements

Every design discussion starts with who, what and why   

There are four category of requirements:

  - Constraints: Unchangeable design decisions usually given, sometimes
  chosen.

  - Quality Attributes: Externally visible properties that characterize
  how the system operates in a specific context.

  - Influential Functional Requirements: Features and functions that
  require special attention in the architecture.

  - Other Influencers: Time, knowledge, experience, skills office politics
  your own geeky biases, and all the other stuff that sways your decision
  making.


## Limit Design Options with Constraints

A constraint is an unchangeable design decision you are given or
choose to give yourself. Most software systems have only a handful
of constraints.

Constraints can influence technical or business concerns. Business
constraints limit decisions about people, process, costs, and schedule.
Technical constraints limit decisions about the technology we may
use in the software system.

Examples of technical constraints

  - Programming Language choice: JVM based
  - Operating System: Linux
  - Use of components or tech: Database Vendor (In house)

Examples of business constraints

  - Team composition: Team X will build XYZ component
  - Schedule or budget: It must be ready in time for the bit trade show
  and cost less than 800K USD

  - Legal restrictions: There is a 5GB daily limit in our license.

## Capture Constraints as simple statements

To capture a constraint, describe the decision and its origin in a brief
statement.

Examples:

    - Must be developped as OSS
    - Must build a browser-based web app
    - Must ship by the end of Q3
    - Must support latest Firefox web browser
    - Must be served from a Linux server


## Capture Quality Attributes as Scenarios

  - A quality attribute is just a word. Scalability, availability and performance
  are meaningless by themselves. We need to give these words meaning so we
  understand what to design.

  - Quality attribute scenarios describe how the software system is expected
  to operate within a certain environmental context. There is a functional
  component to each scenario- stimulus and response.

  - Stimulus is an event that requires the system to respond in some way.
  The stimulus kicks off the scenario and will vary depending on the type
  quality attribute.

  - Source: The source is the person or the system that initiates the stimulus
  Examples include users, system components, and external systems.

  - Artifact, The artifact is the part of the system whose behavior is characterized in the scenario. The artifcat can be the whole system
  or a specific component.

  - Response: The response is an externally visible aciton that takes
  place in  the artifact as a result of the stimulus.

  - Response measure: The response measure defines the success criteria
  for the scenario by defining what a successful response looks like.

  - Environment context: The environment context describes the operational
  circumstances surrounding the system during the scenario.

## Strive for specific and Measurable Response Measures

To create a response measure, start by estimating potential values based on
your own experience. Use a straw man to kick off a conversation with
stakeholders.  

## Look for classes of Functional Requirements

Functional requirements, often captureed as uses cases or user stories,
define the software system's behavior but are only sometimes interesting
when designing the architecture. All functional requiremnts are essential
to the success of the software system. but not all system
features have architectural significance.

When a funcitonal requirement drives architectural decision making, we
call it an influential funcitonal requirement.

Influential funcitonal requiremnts can be referred to as architecture
killers. If you're architecture doesn't allow you to implement one
of these high-value, high priority features, you'll be forced to
raze your architecture and start over.

Identifying influential functional requiremnts is equal parts art and
science. it becomes easier with experience. Here's how the author does it:

1. Start with a notional architecture that summarizes your current
thinking about the architecture.

2. Identify general classes of requirements that represent the same type
of architectural problem.

3. For each probelm class identified, walk through the notional architecture
and show how to achieve each requirement group. If its not immediately obvious
how you would implement the feature based on known coarse grained reqs

The goal of step 2 is to reduce a giant list of functional requirements
down to a small number of representative categories. Here are a few
strategies

      - Look for functional reqs that might be implemented within the
      same architectural elements. For example, features that
      require persistance go in one group whereas featues
      that require user interaction go in another.

      - Look for functional requirements that seem difficult to implement.
      These could be significant to the architecture

      - Look for high-value, high priority funcitonal requirments.


### Build an ASR workbook

Once you've identified requirements with architectural significance, record
them in an ASR workbook. At the begining of a new software system, the
ASR Workboo is a living document and changes rapidly.


#### Sample ASR Workbook Outline

    - Purpose and Scope
    - Intended Audience
    - Business Context
        - Stakeholders
        - Business Goals
    - Architecturaly Significant Requirements
          - Technical Constraints
          - Business Constraints

    - Influential Functional Requirements
          - Top Users or User Personas
          - Use cases or User Stories
