# Choose an Architecture

Designing software architecture is all about making decisions under
uncertainty. Design decisions are loaed with trade-offs, decisions that
force us to compromise, give up something good to avoid something bad,
or accept something bad to get something better.

## Diverge to see options, Converge to Decide

Design exploration is an alternative journey of divergence and convergence
Once we've identified a problem, we diverge our thinking and generate design
alternatives that can solve that problem.

Here are areas of a software system's design architects will typically explore:

  - Explore elements and their responsibilities to determine the general
  composition of structures in the architecture.

  - Explore relations and their interfaces to determine how elements interact
  with on another

  - Explore the domain to understand the world the architecture models.

  - Explore terminology and frameworks to bootstrap promoting quality
  attributes.

  - Explore construction and deployment methods to ensure the architecture
  can be shipped. How we design the architectue influences how the software
  is constructed and deployed.

  - Explore past designs to gain perspective and guide decision making.
  All design is redesign


## Accept Constraitns

Technical constraints limit your technical options whereas business constraints
focus on people, process, cost and schedule.

Business constraints are a bit more naunced. You also have to accept these.
but their impact on the architecture is not always evident.


## Assign Functional Responsibilities to Elements

Every elemnt in the architectuer has a job to do. As we choose structures
we'll assign specific functional responsibilities to each element so we
can achieve all the essential funcitonal requirements.
