## What is An Architecture Pattern?

A reusable solution to a specific problem. Software
architecture patterns show how to promote specific quality attributes
by using a specific combination of structures. Choose the right
patterns for our problem.


## Layers Pattern

The layers pattern is one of the most used architecture patterns.
Most software systems have multiple controbutors. Partitioning code
into distinct and independent layers organized around a specifi set of
related coupling between the layers and higher cohesion within,
which promotes maintainability.

==> Use layers any time you need to change code modules independently of
one another.


## Ports and Adapters Pattern

The ports and adapter patter isolate core busieness logic so that ic
can be used in a variety of contexts and tested in isolation from
components that provide data and events.


## Pipe and Filter pattern

With the pipe and filter pattern, each component called a filter is
responsible for a single transformation or data operation. Data
is streamed from one filter to the next as quickly as possible,
and data operations occur in parallel.
Loosely coupled filters can be reused and combined in different ways
to create new pipelines.


## Service oriented architecture pattern

In a service oriented architecture, independent compnoets are implemented
as services, which provide specific functionality. Services are combined
at runtime to define the software system's behavior. For this to work,
service consumers must be able to locate and use service

Service oriented architectures (SOA) can be implemented in many ways.
Traditional SOA relies heavily on message buses and communication via  
SOAP. modern SOA relies heavily on message buses and communication via
SOAP.

## Publish-Subscribe Pattern

In the publish-subscribe pattern, producers and consumers exist independently
and unaware of one another. Numerous consumers subscribe to events  
published by various producers


## Shared-Data Pattern

In the shared-data pattern, multiple components access data through a
common data store. No single component is entirely responsible for the
data or data store. this pattern is particularly useful when multiple
components require a large amount of data.

==> With shared-data systems, data and the data source is the
primary medium of interaction. Compare this event-based systems
in which components communicate via procedure calls message passing.

==> this pattern promote strong data consistency, but its main drawback is
that it creates a single point of faillure.

## Multi-Tier Pattern

In the multi-tier pattern, runtime structures are organize into logical
groups. these logical groups may be allocated to specific physicall components.
such as a server or cloud platform. The multi-tier pattern is conceptually
similar to the layers pattern.

## Center of Competence Pattern

In the center of competence pattern, a team of experts is charged with
defining patterns, establishing best practices, developing support tools
and providing education for a subset of the architecture.
