# Database Administration

## Configuration Files

Three main configuration files control operations of a PostgreSQL server:

  - postgres.conf: controls general settings, such as memory allocation, default
  storage location for new databases, the IP addresses that PostgreSQL listens on
  location of logs and plenty more

  - pg_hba.conf: controls access to the server, dicating which users can log in to
  which database, which IP addresses can connect, and which authentication scheme to accept.

  - pg_ident.conf:
      If present, this file maps an authenticated OS login to PostgreSQL user.
      People sometimes map the OS root account to the PostgreSQL superuser account,
      postgres.


=> PostgreSQL officially refers to users as roles. Not all roles need to have login
privileges, For example, group roles often do not. We use the term user to refer
to a role with login priviledges.


- listen_addresses: Informs PostgreSQL which IP addresses to listen on. This is ususally
defaults to local (meaning a socket on the local system), or localhost, meaning the IPV6 or
IPV4 localhost IP address. but many change the setting to *, meaning all available IP addresses.

- port: Defaults to 5432. You may wish to change this well-known port to something else
for security or if you are running multiple PostgreSQL services on the same server

- max_connections: The maximum number of concurrent connections allowed.

- log_destination: This setting is somewhat a misnomer. It specifies the format of the
logfiles rather than their physical location. the default is stderr.



==> The following settings affect performance. Defaults are rarely the optimal value
for your isntallation. As soon as you gain enough confidence to tweak configuration settings
you should tune these Values

  - shared_buffers: Allocated amount of memory shared among all connections to store
  recently accessed pages. This setting profoundly affects the speed of your queries.
  You want this setting to be fairly high, probably as much as 25% of your RAM;

  - effective_cache_size: An estimate of how much memory PostgresSQL expects the operating
  system to devote to it. This setting has no effect on actual allocation, but the query
  planner figures in this setting to guess whether intermediate steps and query output
  would fit in RAM;

  - work_mem: Controls the maximum amount of memory allocated for each operation such as
  sorting, hash join, and table scans. The optimal setting depends on how you're using
  the database.



## Authentication Methods

PSQL provides many choices for authenticating users.

  - trust: This is the least secure authentication, essentially no password is needed
  As long as the user and database exist in the system and the request comes from an
  IP within the allowed range, the user can connect. You should implement trust only
  for local connections or private network connections.

  - md5: very common, requires an md5-encrypted password to connect

  - password: Use clear-text password authentication

  - ident:
      Uses pg_ident.conf to check whether the OS account of the user trying to connect
      has a mapping to a PostgreSQL account. The password is not checked. ident is not
      available on Windows.

  - peer:
      Uses the OS name of the user from the kernel. It is available only for Linux, BSD,
      and macOS, and solaris, only for local connections on theses systems.

  - cert:
      Stipulates that connections use SSL. The client must have a registered certificated
      cert uses an ident file sug as pg_ident to map the certificate to a PGSQL user


## Managing Connections

Cancelling and terminating are far from graceful and should be used sparingly. Your
client application should prevent queries fro going haywire in the first place.
Out of politeness, you probably should alert the conected role that you're about
to terminate its connection.


## Syntax

Using psql you can generate a comple list of commands by using the \help command.
For the syntax of a specific command, use the following commnd

postgres-# \help <command_name>

### The SQL statemtn

An SQL statement is comprised of tokens where ach token can represent either a
keyword, identifier, quoted identifier, constant or special character symbol.

#### PGSQL SQL commands

=> ABORT: abort the current transaction (e.g ABORT [WORK | TRANSACTION])

=> ALTER AGGREGATE: Change the definition of an aggregate function  
```sql

ALTER AGGREGATE name (type) RENAME TO new_name;
ALTER AGGREGATE name (type) OWNER TO new_owner;

```

=> ALTER CONVERSION: Change the definition of a conversion.   

```sql

ALTER CONVERSION name RENAME TO new_name;
ALTER CONVERSION name OWNER to new_owner;

```

=> ALTER DATABASE : Change a database specific parameter

```sql

ALTER DATABASE name SET parameter { TO | = } { Value | DEFAULT}
ALTER DATABASE name RESET parameter;
ALTER DATABASE name RENAME TO new_name;
ALTER DATABASE name OWNER to new_owner;

```

=> ALTER DOMAIN: Change the definition of a domain specific parameter.

```sql

ALTER DOMAIN name { SET DEFAULT expression | DROP DEFAULT }
ALTER DOMAIN name { SET | DROP } NOT NULL;
ALTER DOMAIN name ADD domain_constraint;
ALTER DOMAIN name DROP CONSTRAINT constraint_name [RESTRICT | CASCADE ]
ALTER DOMAIN name OWNER TO new_owner;

```

=> ALTER SCHEMA

Change the definition of a schema

```sql

ALTER SCHEMA name RENAME TO new_name
ALTER SCHEMA name OWNER TO new_owner

```

=> ALTER SEQUENCE : Change the definition of a sequence generator

```sql

ALTER SEQUENCE name [ INCREMENT [BY] increment]
[MINVALUE minvalue | NO MINVALUE]
[MAXVALUE maxvalue | NO MAXVALUE]
[ RESTART [ WITH ] start] [CACHE cache][ [ NO ] CYCLE]

```


## PostgreSQL Database Objects

- Databases:
     Each PostgresSQL service houses many individual databases.

- Schemas:
    Schemas are part of the ANSI SQL standard. They are the immediate next level
    of organization within each database. If you think of the database as a country
    schemas would be the individual states.

- Tables:
    Tables are the workhorses of any database. In PostgreSQL, tables are first
    citizens of their respective schemas, which in turn are citizens of the database.

    PostgreSQL tables have two remarkable talents: first, they are inheritable.
    Table inheritance streamlines your database design and can save you endless lines
    of looping code when querying tables with nearly identical structures

- Views:
    Almost all relational database products offer views as a level of abstraction from
    tables. In a view, you can query multiple tables and present additional derived
    column


- Extension:
    Extensions allow developers to package function, data types, cast, custom index
    types, tables, attributes variables, etc., for installation or removal as a unit.


```sql

 CREATE EXTENSION postgis_tiger_geocoder CASCADE;

```

- Functions:
    You can program your own custom functions to handle data manipulation,
    perform complex calculations, or wrap similar functionality. Create functions
    using PLs. PostgreSQL comes stocked with thousands of functions, which you
    can view in the postgres database that is part of every install. PostgresSQL functions
    can return scalar values, arrays, single records, or set of records.


- Languages:
    Create functions using a PL. PostgreSQL installs three by default: SQL, PL/pgSQL
    and C: you can easily install additional languages using the extension framework
    or CREATE PROCEDURAL LANGUAGE command.

- Operators:
    Operators are nothing more than symbolically named aliases succh as = or &&
    for functions. In PostgresSQL

- Foreign tables, and foreign data wrappers:
    Foreign tables are virtual tables likned to data outside of a PostgresSQL database.
    Once you've configured the link

- Triggers and trigger functions:
    You will find triggers in all enterprise-level databases; triggers detect data-change
    events. When PostgresSQL fires a trigger, you have the opportunity to execute
    trigger functions in response. A trigger can run in response to a particular types
    of statement or in response to changes to particular rows, and can fire before or
    after a data-change event.

- Catalogs:
    Catalogs are system schemas that store PostgreSQL builtin functions and
    metadata. Every database contains two catalogs: pg_catalog, which holds all
    functions, tables, system views, casts, and types packaged with PostgreSQL:
    and information_schema. which offers views exposing metadata in a format dictated
    by the ANSI SQL standard.

- Types:
    Type is short for data type. Every database project and every programming language
    has a set of types that it understands: integers, characters, arrays, blobs etc.
    PostgreSQL has composite types, which are made up of other types. Think of
    complex number, polar coordinates, vectors, or tensors as examples.

    Whenever you create a new table, Postgre

- Full text search:

    Full text search (FTS) is a natural language-based search. This kind of search
    has some "intelligence" built in. Unlike regular expression search, FTS can
    match based on the semantics of an expression, not just its syntactical makeup.

- Casts:
    Casts prescribe how to convert from one data type to another. They are backed
    by functions that actually perform the conversion. In PostgreSQL, you can
    create your own casts and override or enhance the default casting behavior.

- Rules:
    Rules are instruction to rewrite an SQL prior to execution.
