# Database administration

Managing roles, and permissions, creating databases, installing extensions


Three main configuration files control operation of a PostgreSQL server:

    - posgresql.conf: Controls the general settings, such as memory allocation, default storage location for new
    databases, the IP addresses that PostgreSQL listens on,
    location of logs, and plenty more

    - pg_hba.conf:
        Controls access to the server, dictating which users can log in to which databases, which IP addresses can connect, and which authentication scheme to accept.

    - pg_hba.conf: controls access to the server, dictating which users can lon in to which databases, which IP addresses can connect, and which authentication scheme to accept.

    - pg_ident.conf: If present, this file maps an authenticated
    OS login to a PostgreSQL server. People sometimes map
    the OS root account to the PostgreSQL superuser account.
    "postgres"


    These confiuguration files can be found in the main
    PostgreSQL DATA FOLDER; you can edit them using any text
    editor or the Admin Pack in pgAdmin;


    ```sql

    SELECT name, setting FROM pg_settings WHERE category = 'File Locations';
    ```

## Making Configurations take effect

Some configuration changes require a PostgreSQL service
restart, which closes active connections from clients. Other
changes require just a reload. Existnt users with active connections ill not be affected during a reload. If you're not
sure whether a configuration change requires a reload or restart
look under the context setting associated with a configuration.

```bash

pg_ctcl reload -D your_directory_here

```

 ```sql

 SELECT pg_reload_conf();

 ```

#### Restarting

More fundamental configuration changes require a restart. You can perform a restart by stopping and restarting the postgres servrice (daemon).

```bash

service postgresql-9.6 restart

```        

##### The postgresql.conf File

The postgresql.conf controls the life-sustaining settings of the PostgreSQL server.
You can override many settings at the database, role, session, and even function levels.    

Version 9.4 introduced an important change: instead of editing postgresql.conf
directly, you should override settings using an iadditional file called postgresql.auto.conf
we further recommend that you don't touch the postgresql.conf and place any custom    


An easy way to read the curret settings without opening the configuraiton files
is to query the view named pg_settings.

=> The context is the scope of the setting. Some setting have a wider effeect than
others, depending on their context. User settings


#### The pga_hba.conf file

The pga_hba.conf file controls which IP addresses and users can connect to the database.
Further more, it dictates the authentication protocol that the client must follow.
Changes to the file require at least a reload to take effect.


## Authentication Methods

PostgreSQL gives you many choices for authenticating users.  

- Trust: this is the least secure authentication, essentially no password is needed.
As long as the user and database exist in the system and the request comes from an
IP within the allowed range, the user can connect. you should implement trust
only for local connections or private networks

- md5: Very common, requires an md5-encrypted passwrod to connect

- password: Uses clear-text password authentication

- ident: Uses pg_ident.conf to check whether the OS account of the user trying to connect
has a mapping to a PostgreSQL account. The password is not checked, ident is not available
on Windows

- peer: Uses the OS name of the user from the kernel. It is available only for linux BSD
macOS, and Solaris, and only for local connections on these systems.

- cert: Stipulates that connection use SSL. The client must have a registered certificate
cert uses an ident file such as pg_ident to map the certificate to a PostgreSQL user and
is available on all platforms where SSL connection is establisherd



## Checkout for Queries beign blocked

The pg_stat_activity provides more details about waiting queries. In prior versions
of PostgreSQL, there was a field called waiting that could take the value true or false.
true denoted a qury that was beign blockeed waiting some resource, but the resource
beign waited for was never stated.


## Roles

PGSQL handles credentaling using roles. Roles that can log in are called login
roles. Roles can also be members of other roles. the roles that contain other roles
are called group roles. Group roles that can login are called group login roles.


### Creating Login Roles

When you initialize the data cluster during setup, PostgresSQL creates a single login
role with the name postgres. You can bypass the password setting by mapping an OS
root user to the new role


```sql
-- This is a login role
CREATE ROLE leo LOGIN PASSWORD 'king' VALID UNTIL 'infinity' CREATEDB;

--- This is a superuser role
CREATE ROLE regina PASSWORD 'queen' VALID UNTIL '2024-1-1 00:00' SUPERUSER;
```

### Creating Group Roles

Group roles generally cannot log in. Rather, they serve as containers for other roles.
This is merely a best-practice suggestion. Nothing stops you from creating a role
that can log in as well as contain other roles.

```sql

-- Group role --
CREATE ROLE royalty INHERIT;

```

To add members to a group role, you would do:

```sql

GRANT royalty TO leo;
GRANT royalty TO regina;

```


### Database Creation

The minimum SQL command to create a database is

```sql
-- This creates a copy of the template1 database. Any role
-- With CREATEDB priviledge.
CREATE DATABASE mydb

```

### Template Databases

A template database is, as the name suggests, a database that serves as a skeleton
for new databases. When you create a new database, PostgreSQL copies all the database
settings and data from the template database to the new database.


### Using Schemas

Schemas organize your database into logical groups. If you have more than two doezn
tables in your database, consider cubbyholing them into schemas.


```sql

CREATE SCHEMA customer1;
CREATE SCHEMA customer2;

```
