# Data Types

## Numerics

Integer, decimals, and floating point numbers are implemented in posgres.

### Serials

Serial and its bigger sibling, bigserial are auto-incrementing integers often
used as primary keys of tables in which a natural key is not apparent. This data
type goes by different names in different database products., with autonumber being
the most common alternative moniker.

### Textuals

There three primitive textual types in Pg: character (abbreviable as char)
, character varying (varchar) and text.

Use char only when the values stored are fixed length, such as postal codes, phone
numbers and social security numbers in the


** String Functions

Common string manipulations are padding (lpad, rpad), trimming whitespace
(rtrim, ltrim, trim, btrim), extracting substring (substring), and concatenating
(||).

```sql

SELECT
  lpad('ab', 4, '0') AS ab_lpad,
  rpad('ab', 4, '0') AS ab_rpad,
  lpad('abcde', 4, '0') AS ab_lpad_trunc;

-- Trimming spaces and characters.
SELECT
  a AS a_before, trim(a) AS a_trim, rtrim(a) AS a_rt,
  i AS i_before, ltrim(i, '0') AS i_lt_0,
  rtrim(i, '0') AS i_rt_0, trim(i, '0') AS i_t_0
FROM (
  SELECT repeat(' ', 4) || i || repeat(' ', 4) AS a, '0' || i AS i
  FROM generate_series(0, 200, 50) AS i
) AS x;

```

### Temporals  

In additon to the usual dates and times types , PostgreSQL supports time zones,
enabling the automatic handling of daylight saving time (DST) conversions by
region. Specialized data types such as interval offer datetime arithmetic.  Pg
also understand infinity and negative infinity.

Range types provide support for temporal ranges with a slew of comparison operators,
functions, and indexes.

Pg temporal types vary in a number of ways to handle different situations. If a
type is time zone-aware, the time changes if you change your server's time zone.
The types are:

- date: Stores the month, day, and year, with no time zone awareness and no concept
of hours, minutes or seconds.

- time: stores hours, minutes and seconds with no awareness of time zone or calendar dates.

- timestamp: stores both calendar dates and time (hours, minutes, seconds) but does
not care about the timezone.

- timestamptz (aka timestamp with a time zone) : A time zone-aware date and time
data type. Internally, timestamptz is stored in Coordinated Universal Time (UTC),
but its display defaults to the time zone of the server., the service config,
the database, the user or the session.

- timetz (aka time with time zone): The lesser-used siste of timestamptz.
it is time zon-aware but does not store the date.

- interval: A duration of time in hours, days, months, minute and others. It comes
in handy for datetime arithmetic. For example if the world is supposed to end in
exactly 667 days from now, all you have to do is add an interfval of 667 days to the
current time to get the exact moment (and plan accordingly).

- tsrange: Allows you to define opened and closed ranges of timestamp with no time
zone. The type consists of two timestamp and opened/closed range qualifies.

- tstzrange: Allows you to define opened and closed ranges of timestamp with timezone.

- daterange: Allows you to define opened and closed ranges of dates.

### Arrays

Arrays play an important role in PGSQL. They are particularly useful in building
aggregate functions, forming IN and ANY clauses, and holding intermediary values
for morphing to other data types. In PGSQL, every data type has a companion

** Array constructors

```sql

SELECT ARRAY [2001, 2002, 2003] AS yrs;

-- If the elements of your array can be extracted from a query, you
-- can use the more sophisticated constructor array():
SELECT array(
  SELECT DISTINCT date_part('year', log_ts)
  FROM logs
  ORDER BY date_part('year', log_ts)
);
```

## Range Types

Range data types represent data with a begining and an end. PostgreSQL also
rolled out many operators and functions to identify overlapping ranges, check
to see whether a value falls inside the range and combine adjacent smaller
ranges into larger ranges.

Range types replace the ned to use two separate fields to represent ranges.
Suppose we want all integers between -2 and 2, but not including 2. The range
represnetation would be [-2, 2).

** Discrete Versus Continuous Ranges

PostgreSQL makes a distinction between discrete and continous ranges. A range
of integers or dates is discrete because you can enumerate each value within
the range. Think of dots in a number line.

A discrete range has multiple representatons. Our earlier example of [-2, 2) can
be represented in the following ways and still include the

### Built-in Range types

PostgreSQL comes with six built-in range types for numbers and datetimes:

int4range, int8range
  - A range of integers. Integer ranges are discrete and subject to canonicalization.

numrange:
  - A continous range of decimals, floating-point numbers, or double-precision
  numbers.
daterange
  - A discrete date range of calendar dates without time zone awareness.

tsrange, tstrange:
  - A continous date and time (timestamp) range allowing for fractional seconds.
  tstrange is not time zone-aware; tstzrange is time zone-aware.


### JSON

PostgreSQL provides JSON and many support functions.

#### Inserting JSON data

To create a table to store JSON, define a column as json type:

```sql

CREATE TABLE persons(id serial PRIMARY KEY, person json);

INSERT INTO persons (person) VALUES(
  '{
    "name": "Sonia",
    "Spouse":
    {
      "name": "Alex",
      "parents":
        {
          "father": "Rafael",
          "mother": "Ofelia"
        },
      "phones":
        [
          {
            "type": "work",
            "number": "619-722-6719"
          },
          {
            "type": "cell",
            "number": "619-852-5083"
          }
        ]
    },
    "children":
      {
        "name": "Brandon",
        "gender": "M"
      },
      {
        "name": "Azaleah",
        "girl": true,
        "phones": []
      }
  }'
)
```

#### Querying JSON

The easiest way to traverse the hierarcy of a JSON object is by using pointer
symbols.

```sql

SELECT person->'name' FROM persons;
SELECT person->'spouse'->'parents'->'father' FROM persons;


```

#### Binary JSON: jsonb

The jsonb data type is handled trough the same operators as those for the json
type, and similarly named functions, plus several additional ones. jsonb performance
is much better than json performance because jsonb doesn't need to be reparsed
during operations. There are a couple of key differences between the jsonb and
json data types:

  - jsonb is internally stored as a binary object and does not maintain the
  formatting of the original JSON text as the json data type does. Spaces aren't
  preserved, numbers can appear slightly different, and attributes become sorted.

  - jsonb does not allow duplicate keys and silently picks one, whereas the json
  type preserves duplicates.

  - jsonb columns can be directly indexed using the GIN index method, whereas
  json requires a functional index to extract key elements.

To demonstrate these concepts, We'll create another persons table replacing
the json column with a jsonb


* jsonb reformats input and removes whitespace. Also, the order of attribute is
not maintained from the insert.

* json maintains input whitespace and the order of attributes.

jsonb has similarly named function as json, plus some additional ones. So for
example, the json family of functions such as json_extract_path_text and json_each
are matched in jsonb by jsonb_extract_path_text, jsonb_each etc.

* In addition to the operators supported by json, jsonb has additional comparator
operators for equality (=), contains (@>), contained (<@), key exists (?), any
of array of key exists (?|), and all of array of key exists (?&).

```sql

SELECT person->>'name' AS name
FROM persons_b
WHERE person @> '{"children": [{"name": "Brandon"}]}';

```

### XML

Postgres comes packed with functions for generating, manipulating, and parsing
XML data. These are outlined in XML functions. Unlike the jsonb type, there
is currently no direct index support for it.

#### Inserting XML data

```sql

CREATE TABLE families (id serial PRIMARY KEY, profile xml);
INSERT INTO families(profile) VALUES (
  '<family name="GOMEZ">
      <member><relation>padre</relation><name>Pedro</name></member>
      <member><relation>madre</relation><name>Juliana</name></member>
      <member><relation>hijo</relation><name>Sancho</name></member>
      <member><relation>hija</relation><name>Sabina</name></member>
    </family>'
);

```

Each XML value could have a different structure. To enforce uniformity we can
add a check constraint

```sql

ALTER TABLE families ADD CONSTRAINT chk_has_relation
CHECK (xpath_exists('/family/member/relation', profile));

```

If we try to insert a data that doesn't respect this constraint like in the following snippet we get an error

```sql

INSERT INTO families (profile) VALUES ('<family name="Gusto"></family>');

```
Error: new row for relation "families"  violates check constraint chk_has_relation


#### Querying XML data

To query XML, the xpath function is really useful. The first argument is an
XPath query, and the second is an xml object. The output is an array of
xml elements that satisfies the xpath query

```sql

SELECT ordinality AS id, family,
  (xpath('/member/relation/text()', f))[1]::text AS relation,
  (xpath('/member/name/text()', f))[1]::text AS mem_name,
FROM
  SELECT (xpath('/family/@name', profile))[1]::text AS family,
  f.ordinality, f.f
  FROM families, unnest(xpath('/family/member', profile)) WITH ORDINALITY AS f) x;

```


### Full Text Search

To search textual data by keyword you have at your disposal the like or ilike
(case insensitive) commands. You can also avail yourself of powerful regular expression and Soundex searches.

#### TSVector

A text column must be vectorized before FTS can search against it. The resultant
vector column is a vector data type. To create tsvector from text, you must specify
the FTS configuration to use. The vectorization reduces the original word to a set
of word skeletons, referred to as lexemes, by removing stop words. For each lexeme
the TSVector records where in the original text it appears.


```sql

-- TSVector derived from different FTS configurations
SELECT c.name,
  CASE
    WHEN c.name = 'default' THEN to_tsvector(f.t)
    ELSE to_tsvector(c.name::reconfig, f.t)
  END AS vect
FROM (
  SELECT 'Just dancing in the rain. I like to  dance.'::text
) AS f(t), (VALUES ('default'), ('english'), ('english_hunspell'), ('simple')) AS c(name);

```

To incorporate FTS in your database add a tsvector column to your table.
You then either schedule the tsvector to be updated regularly, or add a trigger
to the table so that whenever relevant fields update, the tsvector recomputes.

```sql

ALTER TABLE film ADD COLUMN fts tsvector;
UPDATE film
SET fts =
  setweight(to_tsvector(COALESCE(title, '')), 'A') ||
  setweight(to_tsvector(COALESCE(description, '')), 'B');
CREATE INDEX ix_film_fts_gin ON film USING gin (fts);

```


**** TSQueries

```sql

SELECT to_tsquery('business & analytics');

````
