## Accounts

An ethereum account is an entity with an ethere (ETH) balance that can
send transaction on Ethereum. Accounts can be user-controlled or deployed as
smart contracts.

## Account Types

Ethereum has two account types:

  - Externally-owned account controlled by anyone with the private keys
  - contract account: a smart contract deployed to the network, controlled
  by code.

  Both account types have the ability to:
    - Receive, hold and send ETH and tokens
    - Interact with deployed smart contract

### Key differences

- Externally owned

    - Creating an account costs nothing
    - Can initiate transactions
    - Transactions between externally-owned accounts can only be ETH/token transfers
    - Made up of a cryptographic pair of keys: public and private keys that control
    account activities

- Contract:
    - Creating a contract has a cost because you're using network storage
    - Can only send transactions in response to receiving a transaction
    - Transactions from an external account to a contract account can trigger code
    which can execute many different actions, such as transfering tokens or even
    creating a new contract.

    - Contract accounts don't have private keys, Instead, they are controlled by
    the logic of the smart contract code.

### Account Examined

Ethereum accounts have four fields

  - nonce: A counter that indicates the number of transactions sent from an
  externally-owned account or the number of contracts created by a contract account.

  - balance: The number of wei owned by this address. Wei is a denomination of ETH
  and there are 1e+18 Wei per ETH

  - codeHash: This hash refers to the code of an account on the EVM

  - storageRoot - sometimes known as a storage hash. A 256-bit hash of the root
  node of a Merkle Patricia trie that encodes the storage contents of the account
  (a mapping between 256-bit integer values), encoded into the trie as a mapping
  from Keccak 256-bit hash of the 256-bit integer keys to the RLP-encoded 256-bit integer values.
