## The Typesystem

```ts

let a : number = 1;
let b: string = "Hello";
let c: boolean[] = [true, false];

```

If you want typescript to infer the types for you, just leave them off and
let Typscript get to work:


```ts

let a = 1;
let b = "Hello";
let c = [true, false];

```

Right away you will notice how good typescript is at inferring types for you

## Typescript VS Javascript

In typescript types are bound statically whereas they are bound dynamically
in javascript

- Types are automatically converted in javascript whereas they are not most
of the time in typescript

- Types are checked at runtime in javascript whereas they are checked at compile
time in Typescript

- Errors are surfaced mostly at runtime in javascript whereas they are surfaced
at compile time in typescript

Javascript doesn't know your types before running your program.



## Declaration files  


When a typescript script gets compiled, there is an option to generate a
declaration file (with the extension .d.ts) that function as an interface to the
components in the compiled JavaScript. The concept of declaration files is
analogous to the concept of header files found in C/C++. the declaration files
(files with .d.ts extension) provide inellisense for types, function calls
and variables

## Compiler Flags

Compiler flags enable you to change the behaviour of the compiler during
compilation. Each compiler flag exposes a setting that allows you to change how the
compiler behaves.

--help : displays the help manual
--module: Load external modules

--target: Set the target ECMA version

--declaration: Generates an additonal .d.ts file

--removeComments: Removes all comments from the outpout file

--out: Compile multiple files into a single output file

--sourceMap: Generate a sourceMap (.map) files

--module noImplicityAny: Disallows the compiler from inferrring the any type

--watch: Watch for file changes and recompile them on the fly.

```ts

class Greeting{
  greet: void(){
    console.log("Hello World");
  }
}

var obj = new Greeting();
obj.greet();

```

## Typescript - Types

The typesystem represent the different types of values supported by the language
The type system checks the validity of the supplied values, before the are
stored or maniputlated by the program. This ensures that the code behaves as
expected. The type system further allows for richer code hinting and automated
documentation too.

### The Any Type

The any data type is the supper type of all types in Typescript. it denotes
a dynamic type. using the any type is equivalent to opting out of type
checking for a variable.

### Built-in types

- Number (number): Double precision 64-bit floating point values, it can be
used to represent both, integers and fractions.

- String (string) Represents a sequence of Unicode characters

- Boolean (boolean): Represents logical values, true and false

- Void (void): Used on functon return types to represent non-returning functions.

- Null (null) : Represents an intentional abscense of an object value.

- Undefined (undefined): Denotes value givaen to all unitialized variables.


=> Null and undefined are not the same: A variable initialized with undefined
means that the variable has no value or object assigned to it while null means
that the variable has been set to an object whose value is undefined.

### User-defined Types

They include Enumerations (enums), classes, interfaces, arrays, and tuple
These are d


## Typescript - Variables

- Variable names can contain alphabet and numeric digits.
- They cannot contain spaces and special characters, except the underscore (_)
and the dollar ($) sign.

- Variables names cannot begin with a digit.

- A variable must be declaraded before it used.

```ts

var name: string = "John";
var score : number = 50;
var score2 : number = 42.50;
var sum = score1 +  score2;

console.log("name" + name);
console.log("first score: "+ score);
console.log("second score:  " + score2);
console.log("sum of scores: " + sum);

```

### Type Assertion in Typescript

Typescript allows changing a variable from one type to another. Typescript
refers to this process as Type assetion. The syntax is to put the target
type between <> symbols and place it in front of the variable or expression

```ts

var str = '1';
var str2 : number = <number><any> str // str is now of type number
console.log(typeof(str2));

```

## Inferred Typing in Typescript

Given the fact that typescript is strongly typed, this feature is optional.
Typescript also encourages dynamic typing of variables. This means that, Typescript
encourages declaring a variable without a type. In such cases, the compiler
will determine the type of the variable on the basis of the value assigned to it.

## Typescript Variable Scope

The scope of a variable specifies where the variable is defined. The availability
of a variable within a program is determined by its scope. Typescript variable
can be  of the following scope.

- Global scope: Global variables are declared outside the programming constructs
- Class scope: These variables are also called fields. Fields or class variables are
declared within the class but outside the methods

```ts


var glo bal_num = 12;
class Numbers{
  num_val = 13
}

```

## Loops

### While loop  

```ts

var n : number = 10;
while (n > 5){
  console.log("Entered While")
  n--;
}


// DO while loop
n = 10;
do{
  console.log("Entered do...while");
  n--;
}
while(n > 5)

```

## Functions

Functions are the building blocks of readable, maintainable, and reusable
code. A function is a set of statements to perform a specific task. Functions
organize the programm into logical blocks of code. Once defined, functions
may be called to access code. this makes the code reusable.


 ```ts

 function displayDetails(id: number, name: string, mail_id?:string){
   console.log("ID: ", id);
   console.log("Name: ", name);

   if(mail_id != undefined){
     console.log("Email ID: ", mail_id);
   }
 }

 displayDetails(123, "John");
 displayDetails(111, "Marry", "mary@xyz.com");

 ```

 => In typescript optional parameters are preceded with a question mark
 => If an optional parameter is not passed a value during the function call,
 the parameter's value is set to undefined.
 => The function prints the value of mail_id only if the argument is passed a
 value.


### Rest Parameters

Rest parameters are similar to variable arguments in Java. Rest parameters don't
restrict the number of values that you can pass to a function. However,
the values passed must all be of the same type. In other words rest parameters
act as placeholders for multiple arguments of the same type.

```ts

function addNumbers(...nums: number[]){
  var i;
  var sum: number = 0;

  for(i = 0; i < nums.length; i++){
    sum = sum + nums[i];
  }
  console.log("sum of the numbers", sum);
}

addNumbers(1, 2, 3);
addNumbers(10, 10, 10, 10, 10);
```


### Default Parameters

Function parameters can also be assigned values by default. However such parameters
can also be explicitely passed values.

```ts

function calculateDiscount(price : number, rate : number = 0.50){
  var discount = price * price;
  console.log("Discount amount: ", discount);
}
```

### Anonymous Function

Functions that are not bound to an identifier (function nam) are called
anonymous functions. These functions are dynamically declared at runtime.

```ts

var message = function(){
  return "Hello World!!";
}


var res = function(n1: number, n2: number){
  return n1 * n2;
}

console.log(res(30, 30));

```

### Recursion

```ts

function factorial(n){
  if (n == 0 || n == 1){
    return 1
  }
  return n * factorial(n-1);
}

function cachedFactorial(n){
  const cache : {[n : number]: number } = {};
  if (n == 0 || n == 1){
    return 1
  }
  if (cache[n]){
    return cache[n];
  }

  const  result = n * factorial(n-1);

  cache[n] = result;

  return result;
}

```

### Lambda Functions

They are a concise mechanism to represent anonymous functions. These functions
are also called Arrow functions

```ts

var foo = (x: number) => 10 + x;

var fooBis = (x : number ) =>{
  x = 10 + x;
  console.log(x);
}

```

### Functon Overloads


Functions have the capability to operate differently on the basis of the input
provided to them. In other words, a program can have multiple methods with the
same na me with different implementations. This mechanism is termed as Function
overloading.

```ts

function disp(n : number) : void{
  console.log(n);
}

function disp(s: string) : void{

  console.log(s);
}
```

## Typescript - Numbers

Typescript like javascript supports numeric values as Number objects. A number
object converts numeric literal to an instance of the number class. The Number
class acts as a wrapper and enables manipulation of nueric literals as they
were objects


```ts

var varName = new Number(30.0);

```

### Properties of the Number object

- MAX_VALUE: The largest possible value a number in Javascript can have
1.7969...+308

- MIN_VALUE: the smallest possible a number can have

- NaN: Equal to a value that is not a number

- NEGATIVE_INFINITY: A value that is less than MIN_VALUE

- POSITIVE_INFINITY: A value that is greater than MAX_VALUE


## Typescript - Arrays

```ts

var alphas: string[];
alphas = ["1", "2", "3", "4"];
console.log(alphas[0]);
console.log(alphas[1]);

```

```ts

// Array contrcutor accepts comma separated values

var names: string[] = new Array("Mary", "Tom", "Jack", "Jill");
for (var i = 0; i < names.length; i++){
  console.log(names[i]);
}

```

### Array methods

- concat() : Returns a new array comprised of this array joined with another
array and or values

- every(): Returns true if every element in this array statisfies the provided testing function

- filter(): Creates a new array with all of the lements of this array for which the
provieded filtering function return true

- forEach() : calls a function for each element in the array

- indexOf(): returns the first index of an emlement within the array to the specified
value, or -1 if none is found.

- join(): Joins all elements of an array into a string

- lastIndexOf(): Returns the last greatest index of an element within the array
equal to the specified value, or -1 if none is found

- pop(): Removes the last element from an array and returns that element

- push(): Adds one or more elements to the end of an array and returns the new
length of the arrays

...And many more.

### Array Destructuring

```ts

var arr: number[] = [12, 13]
var [x, y] = arr
console.log(x)
console.log(y);

```

### Array Traversal

```ts

var j: any;
var nums : number[] = [1001, 1002, 1003, 1004];

for(j in nums){
  console.log(nums[j]);
}

```


## Typescript - Tuples

var tuple_name = [value1, valu2, value3];

```ts

var myTuple = [];
myTuple[0] = 120;
myTuple[1] = 300;
myTuple[2] = 580;

```

Accessing values in tupeles

Tuple values are individually called items.

```ts

var myTuple = [10, "Hello"];
console.log(myTuple[0]);
console.log(myTuple[1]);

```

Tuple operations, They support various operation like pushing a new item,
removing an item from the tuple etc.

```ts

var myTuple = [10, "Hello", "World", "Typescript"];
console.log("Items before push" + myTuple.length);

myTuple.push(12);
console.log("Items after push " + myTuple.lenght);
console.log("Items before pop", + myTuple.length);
console.log(myTuple.pop() + " pooped from the tupple");

```

### Updating Tuples

Tuples are mutable which means you can updated or change the values of tuple
elements

```ts

var myTuple = [10, "Hello", "World", "Typescript"];
console.log("Tuple values at index 0 " + myTuple[0]);

// Update index 0
myTuple[0] = 121;
console.log("Tuple values at index 0 " + myTuple[0]);

```

## Typescript - Union

Typescript 1.4 gives programs the ability to combine one or tow types. Union
types are a powerful way to express a value that can be one of several types.
Two or more data types are combined using the pipe symbol

```ts

var val: string|number
val = 12;
console.log("Numeric  alue of val " + val);
val = "This is a string";

```

Union type function parameter

```ts

function display(name: string|string[]){
  if(typeof name == "string"){
    console.log(name);
  } else{
    for(var i = 0; i < name.length; i++){
      console.log(name[i]);
    }
  }
}

display("mark");
console.log("Printing names array");
display(["Mark", "Tom", "Mary", "John"]);

```

Union types can also be applied to arraysn properties and interfaces.
The following illustrate the use of union type with an array.

```ts

var arr: number[]|string[];
var i: number;
arr = [1, 2, 4];
console.log("***Numeric Array**");

for(i = 0; i < arr.length; i++){
  console.log(arr[i]);
}
```

## Typescript - Interfaces

An interface is a syntacticla contract that an entity should conform to.
Interfaces define properties, methods and events which are the members of the
interfacE

```TS

var person = {
  FirstName: "Tom",
  LastName: "Hanks",
  sayHis: () =>{ return "Hi" };
}

interface IPerson{
  firstName: string,
  lastName: string,
  sayHi: () => string
}

var customer : IPerson = {
  firstName: "Tom",
  lastName: "Hanks",
  sayHi: (): string => `Hi there I'am ${firstName}-${lastName}`,
}

```

Interfaces can be exended by other interfaces. In other words, an interface can
inherit from other interface. Typescript allows an interface to inherit from
multiple interfaces. use the extends keyword to implement inherigteance among
interfaces.

```TS

interface Person{
  age: number
}

interface Musician extends Person{
  instrument: string
}

var drummer = <Musician>{};
drummer.age = 27;
drummer.instrument = "Drums";
console.log("Age:  " + drummer.age)
console.log("Instrument: " + drummer.instrument);

```
