# Activities to Understand the Problem

## Choose One thing

Discuss priorities with stakeholders by presenting them with an extreme
choice, if you get to choose only one thing, what will it be?

### Preparation Materials

  - List of alternatives, such as quality attributes, or other difficult
  tradeoffs such as cost, schedule and features.

  ### Steps:

      - Explain the rules of the game, Stakeholders may choose only one
      of the presented optiosn
      - Present a set of options to stakeholders. Discuss what each options
      means and make sure that everyone understand the options

      - Force stakeholders to pick one option. All stakeholders should agree
      that this is the most important thing

      - Briefly discuss why the option was selected

      - Pick another set of architecturaly significant requirements that are
      in tension with one another and play again.

## Empathy Map

  - Brainstorm a particular stakeholder's responsibilities, thoughts and
  feelings to help the team develop a greater sense of empathy with stakeholders
  goals

  ## Timing: 30 - 40 minutes

  ## Participants: Software architect, dev team, group of 3-5 as a solo exercice

  ## Preparation Materials:

    - Before activity starts, choose which stakeholders, systems, or users
    will be the focus of the activity.

    - Flipchart paper or a whiteboard, markers or sticky notes

    - Screen sharing for remote participants.

  ## Steps:

      1. Draw a grid on the board
      2. Pick a stakeholder and write his/her name in the middle
      3. Brainstorm tasks this person does, artifacts this person makes
      things this person says, and feelings they may have
      4. Write each idea on a sticky note and place it on a quadrant
      5. Review the empathy map and highlight insights



## Activity 3: Goal-Question Metric Workshop

An approach for identifying metrics and response measures so that we can
connect data with business goals. The goal question metric approach

  ## Benefits

      - Emphasizes with with stakeholders goals as the basis for measures
      - Shows clear lineage from data to stakeholder goals by way of questions
      that must be answered to decide whether a goal is satisfied
      - Flexible approach that can help teams think about metrics in
      a variety of situations


  ## Steps:

      1. Write a goal at the far left of the whiteboard
      2. Prompt participants to provide questions. What questions should
      you need to answer to know if you've met this goal? with each question
      to the right of the goal. Draw lines from
