## Common Browser APIs

- APIs for manipulating documents loaded into the browser. The most obvious
example is the DOM, which allows you to manipulate HTML and CSS - creating
removing and changing HTML, dynamially applying new styles to your page, etc.

Every time you see a popup window appear on a page or some new content displayed
for example, that's the DOM in action.

- APIs that fetch data from the server to update small sections of a webpage
on their oown are very commonly used.
    - the main one is the Fetch API

- APIs for drawing and manipulating graphics are widely supported in browsers
the most popular ones are:
    - Canvas
    - WebGL

  They allow you to programmatically update the pixel data contained in a HTML
  <canvas> element to create 2D and 3D scenes. For example you might draw shapes
  such as rectangles or circles, import an image onto the canvas, and apply a filter
  to it. such as speia or grayscale using the Canvas API, or create a context 3D scene


- Audio and Video APIs like HTMLMediaElement, the Web Audio API and WebRTC
allow you to do really intersting things with multimedia such as creating
custom UI controls for playing audio and video, displaying text tracks like
captions and subtitles along with your video,  grabbing video from your web
camera to be manipulated via canvas.

- Devices APIs enable you to interact with devices hardware: for example,
accessing the device GPS to find the user's position using the GeolocationAPI

- Client-side storage APIs enable you to store data on the client-side, so you
can create an app that will save its state between page loads, and perhaps
even work when the device is offline. There are several options availabel

- Third party APIs: (Twitter, Maps, Facebook, Telegram, Youtube)


```javascript

const AudioContext = window.AudioContext  || window.webkitAudioContext;
const audioCtx = new AudioContext();

```

## Apis have recognizable entrypoints

When using an API, you should make sure you know where the entry point
is for the API. In the web audio api, this is pretty simple its the AudioContext
object, which needs to be used to do any audio manipulation whatsoever.

The Document Object Model (DOM) has also a very simple entry point.
Its features tend to be found hanging off the Document object, or an
instance of an HTML element that you want to affect in some way


```javascript

const em = document.createElement("em");
const para = document.querySelector("p"); // reference an existing p element
em.textContent = "Hello There!";
para.appendChild(em);

```
