# Peatio

## Features

    - Easy scaling as you grow
    - Built-in multiple wallet support (eg. deposit, hot, warm, and cold)
    - API support to plug any Blockchains, coins, and ERC tokens
    - Built-in Management API-server-to-server API with high privileges
    - Built-in RabbitMQ event API
    - Websocket API
    - Supports high-frequency trading (with Openfinex)
    - Supports trading bots and market-making AI assistance ()
    - API endpoints for payment gateways
    - Highly configurable and customizable
    - Bank-standard security out of the box.


## Architecture

### Components

#### AppLogic

    - Applogic: the component for implementing custom business operations which is
    currently being separated from core Peatio and Barong funcitonality
    It interacts with other components using Event API and Management

    - Features: among the main AppLogic features ther are:
        - Multisignature withdrawal request using Management API
        - Custom Event API listeners


#### Kubernetes

The foundation of the crypto platform


#### Arke

Arke is the missing tool for connecting a liquidity network on your exchange
Arke is an Open-Source crypto-Currency Arbitrage platform.


#### Peatio

The main accounting gateway between fiat and Crypto-currencies, Peation is
in charge of maintaining the Member balance for engating trading activities

Peatio is only used as an API,

#### Coinhub

Blockchain gateway from kubernetes to external Blockchain APIs

#### Barong

KYC OAuth 2.0 provider
Barong replace the KyC, 2FA, phone verification from legacy Peatio

Barong manage roles and KyC level accross all applications from the RKCP.
It's easy to extend by using the EventAPI or REST API

#### Cryptobase

A base implementation of the Peatio frontend

#### Vault

A tool for securely accessing secrets. A secret is anything that you want to
tightly control access to, such as API keys, passwords, or certificates.
Vault provides a unified interface to any secret, while providing tight access
control and recording a detailed audit log.

RKCP rely mainly on vault for keeping secrets, wallets secrets, certificates and
OTP seeds.

#### BOSCH and Concourse

BOSH is a proejct that unifies release engineering, deployment, and lifecycle management
of small and large-scale cloud software. BOSH can provision and deploy software over
hundreds of VMs, It also performs monitoring, failure recovery, and software updates with
zero-to-minimal downtime.

Kite and RKCP use Bosh for deploying blockchain nodes as a service.
Components managed by bosh are:

* Vault
* Bitcoin/ Dash blockchain nodes
* Concourse CI
* RabbitMQ
* Prometheus with Grafana for monitoring
