# Transition to HTTP2

Here are a handful of the items you should consider before turning
HTTP/2 on for your website:

  - Browser support
  - Potential move to serving over TLS (HTTPS)
  - Turning your website for h2 (possibly untunning for h1)
  - Third parties on your site
  - Retaining support for old clients.


## Browser support

As of publishing time 80% of browsers support h2

## Moving to TLS   

You need to support TLS. at least TLS 1.2 with a specific set of
ephemeral ciphers. Most modern security conscious websites are already
on the "TLS everywhere" bandwagon.

Items to consider include:

- Understand your webserver: Every web server has a slightly different way to configure
its HTTPS settings.

- Obtain a certificate:

- Protect your private key:
    Your certificate is only as secure as you make it. To safely run a site over
    TLS, you need to consider how and where your private key are stored and who has
    access to them. Solutions range from using very expensive Hardware security Modules
    through finger crossing and good practices.

- Prepare for increased server load:
    - Keep connection open as long as possible: The most expensive part of TLS
    is the handshake at connection time. If you keep the connection ope for as long
    as possible, you will reduce the number of handshakes needed.

    - Use session tikckets. Session tickets allow a client to reconnect to the server,
    reusing the computationally expensive crypto work done in a previous handshake

    - Use a chipset with built-in crypto support. Intel's AES-NI instruction in its
    modern processors make very quick owrk of symmetric cryptography.

    - Keep up with changes:
      Web security is a dynamic world. There is a new vulnerability in servers and
      HTTPS seemingly every couple of months. It is important to keep up with the
      latest and greatest to ensure your work is not useless tomorrow.

    - Regularly check your site: Use tools such as Qualy's Lab's SSL Test to check
    your site TLS configuration.
