# HTTP/2 Protocol

## Layers of HTTP/2

HTTP/2 can be generalized into two parts: the framing layer, which is core to h2's
ability to multiplex, and the data or http layer, which contains the portion that is
traditonally thought of as HTTP and its associated data. It is tempting to
completely separate the two layers and think of them as totally independent things.

- Binary Protocol:
  The h2 framing layer is a binary framed protocol. This makes for easy parsing by
  machines but causes eye strain when read by humans

- Header Compression:
    H2 headers are heavily compressed. This can have a drammatic effect on
    redundent bytes on the wire.

- Multiplexed:
    When looking at a connection that is transporting h2 in your favorite debugging
    tool, requests and responses will be interwoven with each other.

- Encrypted:
    For the most part the data on the wire is encrypted, making reading on
    the fly more challenging.


## The Connection

The base element of any HTTP/2 session is the connection. tHIS IS defined as
TCP/IP socket initiated by the client, the entity that will send the HTTP requests.
This is no different than h1. however unlike h1, which is completely stateless
h2 bundeles connection-level ellement that all of the frames and streams that run
over it adhere to. These include connection-level settings and header table


==> Protocol discovery? : Knowing that an endpoint can support the protocol you
want to speak, can be ttricky. HTTP2 propvied


## Frames

HTTP/2 is a framed protocol. Framing is a method for wrapping all the important
stuff in a way that makes it easy for consumers of the protocol to read, parse
and create. In contrast h1 is not framed but is rather text delimited.

```HTTP1

GET / HTTP/1.1 <crlf>
Host: www.example.com <crlf>
Connection: keep-alive <crlf>
Accept: text/html,application/xhtml+xml,application/xml;q=0.9... <crlf>
User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_11_4)... <crlf>
Accept-Encoding: gzip, deflate, sdch <crlf>
Accept-Language: en-US,en;q=0.8 <crlf>
Cookie: pfy_cbc_lb=p-browse-w; customerZipCode=99912|N; ltc=%20;... <crlf>
<crlf>

```

Frames let the consumer know up front what they will be getting.
Framed protocols in general, and h2 specifically start with some known number
of bytes that contain the length firled for the overall size of the frame.

=> Multiplexing helps get around problems such as head of line blocking,  
There are 10 different frame types in the protocol.


- DATA [0x0] : Carries the core content for a stream
- HEADERS [0x1]: Contains the HTTP headers and optionally, priorities
- PRIORITY [0x2]: Indicates or changes the stream priority and dependencies
- RST_STREAM [0x3]: Allows an endpoint to end a stream (generally an error case)
- SETTINGS: [0x4]: Communicates connection-level parameters
- PUSH_PROMISE [0x5]: Indicates to a client that a server is about to send something.
- PING [0x6]: Tests connectivity and measures round-trip time (RTT)
- GOAWAY [0x7]: Tells an endpoint that the peer is done accepting new streams
- WINDOW_UPDATE [0x8]: Communicates how many bytes an endpoint is willing to receive
- CONTINUATION: [0x9]: Used to extend HEADER blocks

## Streams

The HTTP/2 specification defines a stream as an independent, bidirectional sequence
of frames exchanged between the client and server within an HTTP/2 connection. You
can think of a stream as a series of frames making up an individual HTTP request/response
pair on a connection. When a client wants to make a request it initiates a new stream.
The server will reply on that same stream.

### Messagges

An HTTP message is a generic term for an HTTP request or response. As mentioned
in the previous section, a stream is created to transport a pari of request/response
messages. At a minimum a message consists of a HEADERS frame (which initiates the stream)
and can additionally contain CONTINUATION and DATA frames, as well as additional  
HEADERS frames.

### Flow Control

A new feature in h2 is stream flow control. Unlike h1 where the server will send data
just about as fast as the client will consume it, h2 provides the ability for the client
to pace the delivery. Flow control information is indicated in WINDOW_UPDATE frames.
Each frame tells the peer endpoint how many bytes the sender is willing to receive.
As the endpoint receives and  consumes sent data, it will sned out a windows_update
frame to indicated its updated ability to consume bytes.

==> A client may want to use flow control for a variety of reasons. One very practical
reason may be to make certain one stream does not choke out others. Or a client may have
limited bandwidth or memory available and forcing the data to come down in


### Priority

The last important characteristic of streams is dependencies. Modern browsers are
very careful to ask for the most important elements on a web page first, which
improves performance by fetching objects in an optimal order.


## Server Push

The best way to improve performance for a particular object is to have it positionned
in the browser's cache before it even asked for. This is the goal of HTTP/2's server
Push feature. Push gives the server the ability to send an object to a client proactively
presumably because it knows that it will be needed at a near future date. Allowing a
server to arbitrarily send objects down to a client could cause problems, including
performance and security issues, so it is not just a matter of doing it, but also a
matter of doing it well.

### Pushing an Object

When the server decides it wants to push an object (referred to as "pushing a response")
it constructs a PUSH_PROMISE frame. There are a number of important attributes to this
feature:

    - The stream ID in the PUSH_PROMISE frame header is the stream ID of the request
    that the response is associated with. A pushed response is always related to
    a request the client has already sent. For exa



## Header Compression HPACK

HPACK is a table lookup compression scheme that leverages Huffman encoding to get compression
rates that approach GZIP. T
