# Organizing Code

Different options for structuring the code of a BuckPal example application
More specifically, we'll look at the use case "Send Money" with which a
user can transfer money from his account to another.


## Organizing By layer

The first approach to organiziong code is by layer.

buckpal
|-- domain
      |-- account
      |-- Activity
      |-- AccountRepository
      |-- AccountService
|-- persistance
      |-- AccountRepositoryImpl
|-- web
      |-- AccountController

=> For each layers web, domain and persistance we have a dedicated package.
This package structure is suboptimal for several reasons.

- We have no package boundary between funcitonal slices or features of our application.
If we add a feature for managing users, we'll add a UserController to the web package,
a UserService, UserRepository, and User to the domain package and a UserRepositoryImpl
to the persistance package. Without further structure, this might quickly become a mess
of classes leading the unwanted side effects between supposedly unerelated features
of the application.

- Second we can't see which use cases our application provides. Can you tell what
use cases the AccountService or AccountController classes implement? If we're looking
for a certain feature, we have to guess which service implements it and then search
for the responsible method within that service.

- Similarly we can't see the target architecture within the package structure.
We can geuss that we have followed the hexagonal architecture style and then browse the
classes in the web and persistance packages to find the web and peristance adapters.

## Organizing by feature


buckpal
  |-- account
        |-- Account
        |-- AccountController
        |-- AccountRepository
        |-- AccountRepositoryImpl
        |-- SendMoneyService


The package-by-feature approach makes our architecture even less visible than
the package-by-layer approach. We have no package names to identify our adapters,
and we still don't see the incoming and outgoing ports.

## An Architecturally Expressive Pakcage Infrastructure

In an hexagonal architecrure we have entities, use cases, incoming and outgoing
ports and incoming and outgoing (or "driving" and "driven") adapters as our
main architecture elements.  

buckpal
  |-- account/
        |-- in/
              |-- web/
                  |-- AccountController
        |-- out/
              |-- persistance/
                      |-- AccountPersistanceAdapter
                      |-- SpringDataAccountRepository
  |-- domain/
        |-- Account
        |-- Activity

  |-- applicaton/
        |-- SendMoneyService
        |-- port/
              |-- in/
                  |-- SendMoneyUseCase
              |-- out/
                    |-- LoadAccountPort
                    |-- UpdateAccountStatePort


Moving the adapter code to their own packages has the added benefit that we can
very easily replace one adapter with another implementation, should the need arise.
Imagine

Another very appealing advantage of this package structure is that it directly maps
to DDD concepts. The high-level package, account, in our case, is a bounded context which
has dedicated entry and exit points (the ports) to communicate with other bounded contexts.


## The Role of Dependency Injection

For incoming adapters, like the web adapter, this is easy since the control flow points
in the same direction as the dependency between adapter and domain code.
The adapter simply calls the service within the application layer. In order to clearly
demarcate the entry points to our application, we might want to hide the actual
services between port interfaces nonetheless.*

==> For outgoing adapters, like our persistance adapter, we have to make use of the
Dependency Inversion principle to turn the dependency against the direction of the
control flow.
