# Client Identification and Cookies

- Session Tracking:
     HTTP transactions are stateless. Each request/response happens in isolation.
     Many web sites want to build up incremental state as you interact with
     the site (for example, filling an online shopping cart).


This chapter summarizes a few of the technicques used to identify users in HTTP.

- HTTP headers that carry information about user identity
- Client IP address tracking, to identify users by their IP addresses
- User login, using authentication to identify users
- Fat URLs, a technique for embedding identity in URLs
- Cookies, a powerful but efficient technique for maintaining persistent identity


## HTTP headers

=> Headers that carry clues about users

  - From ==> Request ==> User's email address
  - User-Agent ==> Request ==> User browser software
  - Referer ==> Request ==> Page user came from by following link
  - Authorization ==> Request ==> username and password  
  - Client-ip ==> Extension (request) => client's IP address
  - X-Forwared-For ==> Extension (request) ==> Client's IP address
  - Cookie ==> Extension (request) ==> Server-generated ID label

## Cookies

A session cooke is a temporary cookie that keeps track of settings and preferences
as a user navigates a site. A session cookie is deleted when the user exits the
browser. Persistent cookies can live longer; they are stored on disk and survive
browsers exits and computer restarts.

==> The only difference between session cookies and persistent cookies is when they
expire. As we will see later, a cookie is a session cookie if its discard parameter
is set; or if there is no Expires or Max-Age parameter indicating an extended expiration
time.


==> A browser can have hundreds or thousands of cookies in its internal cookie jar;
but browsers don't send every cookie to every site. In fact, they typically send only
two or three cookies to each site.  

- Moving all those cookies bytes would dramatically slow performance. Browsers
would actually be moving more cookies bytes than real content bytes
- Most of these cookies would just be unrecognizable gibberish for most sites;
because they contain server-specific name/value pairs.  
- Sending all cookies to all sites would create potential privacy concenr, with
sites you don't trust getting information you intended only for another site.
