# Back of the envelope estimation 

## Latency considerations 

	- Memory is fast but the disk is slow 
	- Avoid disk seeks if possible 
	- Simple compression algorithms are fast 
	- Compress data before sending it over the internet if possible 
	- Data centers are usually in different regision, and it takes time to send data between them.


## Availability Numbers 

High availability is the ability of a system to be continously operational for a desirably long period 
of time. High availability is measured as a percentage, with 100% means a service that has 0 
downtime. most service fall between 99% and 100%

A service level agreement (SLA) is a commonly used term for service providers. This is an agreement 
between you (the service provider) and your customer, and this agreement formally defines the level
of uptime your service will deliver.



# Framework for System Design Interviews 

An effective system design interview gives strong signals about a person's ability to collaborate, to work 
under pressure, and to resolve ambiguity constructively. The ability to ask good questions is also an 
essential skill, and many interviewers specifically look for this skill. 


## Step 1: Understand the problem and establish design scope 

In a system design interview do not jumb to give a solution. Slow down. Think deeply and ask questions to 
clarify requirements and assumptions. This is extremely important. 

As an engineer, one of the most important skills is to ask the right questions, make the proper assumptions, and 
gather all the information needed to build a system. 

What kind of questions to ask: 

Ask questions to understand the exact requriements. 

	- What specific features are we going to build 
	- How many users does the product have? 
	- How fast does the company anticipate to scale up? what are the anticipated scales in 3 months, 6 months, and a year?
	- What is the company's technology stack? What existing servies you might leverage to simplify design?

## Step 2: Propose a high level design and get buy-in 

In this step, we aim to develop a high-level design and reach an agreement with the interviewer on the 
design. It is a great idea to collaborate with the interviewer during the process.

	- Come up with an initial blueprint for the design. Ask for feedback. Treat your interviewer as a teammate and 
	work together. Many good interviewers love to talk and get involved. 

	- Draw box diagrams with key components on the whiteboard or paper. This might include clients (mobile or web) 
	APIs, web servers, data stores, cache, CDN, message queues etc. 

	- Do back of the envelope calculations to evaluate if your blueprint fits the scale constraints. 
	Think out loud. Communicate with your interviewer if the back of the envelope is necessary

## Step 3: Design Deep dive 

At this step, you and your interviewer should have already achieved the following objectives: 
	- Agreed on the overall goals and feature scope 
	- Sketched out a high-level blueprint for the overall design 
	- Obtained feedback from your interviewer on the high-level design 
	- Had some initial ideas about areas to focus on in deep dive based on her feedback. 

You shall work with the interviewer to identify and prioritize components in the architecture.

## Step 4: Wrap Up 

In this final step, the interviewer might ask you a few follow-up questions or give you the freedom to discuss other additional points. 

	- The interviewer might want you to identify the system bottlenecks and discuss potential improvements. 
	Never say your design is perfect and nothing can be improved. There is always something to improve upon.

	- It could be useful to give the interviewer a recap of your design. THis is particularly important if you 
	suggested a few solutions. Refreshing your interviewer's memory can be helpful after a long session. 

	- Error cases (server failure, network loss, etc) are interesting to talk about 

	- Operation issue are worth mentioning. How do you monitor metrics and error logs? How to roll out system? 

	- How to handle the next scale curve is also an interesting topic. For example, if your current design support 1 million
	users, what changes do you need to make to support 10 million users? 

	- Propose other refinenments you need if you had more time.
