# Working With Containers

## Creating a Container

The docker create and docker run commands both contain all the options that pertain
to how a container is initiall set up.

## Update The application

Use the docker build command to update your application  

```bash

docker build -t getting-started .

```

### Remove the old container  

```bash

# Get the id of the container using docker ps
docker ps

# Use the docker stop command to stop the container  

docker stop <the-container-id>

# Once the container has stopped remove it
docker rm <the-container-id>

```

### Start the updated app container

```bash

docker run -dp 127.0.0.1:3000:3000 getting-started

```

# Share the application

Now that you've built an image, you can share it. To share a Docker image,
you have to use a Docker registry. The default registry is Docker hub and
is where all of the images you've used have come from.

Let's pretend that there exists a docker repository with the name getting
started in the DOCKER hub.

To push an image to the repository you need to run

```bash

docker push docker/getting-started

```

# Persist the DB

## The container's filesystem

When a container runs, it uses the various layers from an image for its filesystem.
each container also gets its own "scratch space" to create/update/remove files

## Volumes

By creating a volume and attaching (often called mounting) it to the directory
where you stored the data, you can persist the data. As your container writes to
the file, it will persist the data to the host in the volume.

You can use a volume mount. You can think of it as an opaque bucket of data.
Docker fully manages the volume, including the storage location on disk.
You only need to remember the name of the volume.

You can create a volume from the CLI with

```bash

docker volume create todo-db

```

You can specify a volume mount to a container with

```bash

docker run -dp 127.0.0.1:3000:3000 --mount type=volume, src=todo-db, target=/etc/todos getting-started

```

### Dive into the volume

You can use "docker volume inspect", to know where the data is stored when
using a volume.


## Bind Mounts

A bind mount is another type of mount, which lets you share a directory from
the host's filesystem into the container. When working on an application, you can
use a bind mount to mount source code into a container. The container sees the changes
you make to the code immediately, as soon as you save a file. This means that you
can run processes in the container that watch for filesystem changes and respond to them.


## Multi Container Apps

### Container networking

There a two ways to put a container on a network:

  - Assign the network when starting the container
  - Connect an already running container to a network


==> The "dig" command allows you to lookp the IP address of a container


#### Example Running a MYSQL APP

The todo app (cfr reference site) supports the setting of a few environment variables
to specify MYSQL connection settings. They are:

  - MYSQL_HOST: the hostname for the running mysql server
  - MYSQL_USER: the username to use for the connection
  - MYSQL_PASSWORD: the password to use for the connection
  - MYSQL_DB: the database to use once connected



## Using Docker compose

Docker compose is a tool that helps you define and share multi-container applications.
With compose you can create a YAML file to define the services and with a single command
you can spin everything up or tear it all down.
