# Introduction to gRPC

No matter the architectural styles (conventional or microservices) you use,
inter-process communication techqniques are one of the most important aspects
of modern distributed software applications.

Inter-process communication are usually implemented using message passing with
a synchronous request-response style or asynchronous event-driven styles.

When it comes to building synchronous request-response style communication for
modern cloud native applications and microservices, the most common and conventional
approach is to build them as RESTful services, where you model your application
or service as a collection of resources that can be accessed and have their state
changed via network calls that take place over the HTTP protocol.

For most use cases RESTful services are quite bulky, inefficient and error-prone
for building inter-process communication. It is often required to have a highly
scalabel, loosely coupled inter-process communication. It is often required to
have a highly scalable, loosely coupled inter-process communication technology
that is often more efficient than RESTful services.

This is where gRPC comes into the picture, gRPC primarily uses a synchronous
request-response style for communication but can operate in fully asynchronous
or streaming mode once the initial communication is established.

## What is gRPC

gRPC is an interprocess communication technology that allows you to connect,
invoke, operate, and debug distributed heterogenous applications as easily
as making a local function call.

When you develop a gRPC application the first thing that you do is define a
service interface. The service interface definition contains information on how
your service can be consumed by consumers, what methods you allow consumers
to call remotely, what method parameters and message formats to use when
invoking those methods and so on.

=> The language that we specify in the service definition is known as an
interface definition language (IDL).

=> Using that service definition, you can generate the server-side code known as
server skeleton, which simplifies the server-side logic by providing low-level
communication abstractions.

=> You can generate the client-side code, known as a client stuc which simplifies
the client-side communication with abstractions to hid low-level communication
for different programming languages


## Service Definition

gRPC uses protocol buffers as the IDL to define the service interface. Protocol
Buffers are a language agnostic, platform-neutral, extensible mechanism to
serializing structured data.

The service interface definition is specified in a proto file - an ordinary
text file with a .proto extension. You defined gRPC services in ordinary protocol
buffer format, with RPC method parameters and return types specified as protocol
buffer messages.


```proto

syntax = "proto3";
package ecommerce:

service ProductInfo{
  rpc addProduct(Product) returns (ProductID);
  rpc getProduct(ProductID) returns (ProductID);
}

message Product{
  string id = 1;
  string name = 2;
  string description  = 3;
}

message ProductID{
  string value = 1;
}

```

Once you have a service definition in place, you can use it to generate
the server or client-side code using the protocol buffer compiler protoc.
With gRPC plug-in for protocol buffers, you can generate gRPC server-side and
client-side code, as well as the

## Client-Server Message Flow

When a gRPC client invokes a gRPC service, the client-side gRPC library uses
the protocol buffer and marshals the remote procedure call protocol buffer
format, which is then sent over HTTP/2. On the server side, the request is
unmarshaled and the respective procedure invocation is executed using protocol


## Evolution of Inter-Process Communication

Inter-process communication techniques have been drastically evolving over time
there are various such techniques emerging to address modern needs and
provide a better and more efficeitn development experience.

### Conventional RPC

With RPC a client can invoke a function of a method just like calling a local
method. Most conventional RPC implementatons are overwhemingly complex, as they
are built on top of communication protocols such as TCP, which hinders interoperability
and are based on bloated specs.

### SOAP

Simple Object Access Protocol is the standard communication protocol in a
service oriented architecture to exchange XML-strctured data.

With SOAP you can define the service interface, operations of that service, and
an associated XML message format to be used to invoke those operations. SOAP
was quite popular tech, but the complexity of the message format, as well as
the complexities of specifications built around SOAP, hinders the agility
of building distributed applications.

### REST

The defactor implementation of REST is HTTP, and in HTTP you can model a RESTful
web application as a collection of resources accessible using a unique identifer
(URL). The state changing operations are applied on top of those resources
in the form of the HTTP verbs (GET, POST, PUT, DELETE, PATCH, and so on)

There are a couple of key limitations of RESTful services that hinder the ability
to use them as the messaging protocol for modern microservices-based applications.

#### inefficient text-based message protocols

Inherently, RESTFul services are built on top of text-based transport protocols
such as HTTP 1.x and leverage human readable textual formats such as JSON.
When it comes to service-to-service communication, it is quite inefficient to use
a textual format such as JSON because both parties to that communication do not
need to use human-readable textual formats.

#### Lacks strongly typed interfaces between apps

With the increasing number of services interacting over the network that are built
with disparate polyglot techs, there is a lack of well-defined and strongly
typed service definition. most service definition techs for RESTful apps are
afterthoughts and not tightly integrated with the underlying architectural style.

This leads to many incompatibilities, runtime errors, and interoperability issues.
in  building such decentralized applications.

#### The REST architectural style is hard to enforce

There exists many good practices that one has to follow to make a real
RESTful service. But these are not enforced as part of the protocol implementation.


## Why gRPC?

gRPC is designed to be an internet-scale, inter-process communication technology
that can overcome most of the shortcommings of conventional inter-process communication
technologies.

## Advantages of gRPC

- Efficient for inter-process communication: Rather than using a textual format such
as JSON or XML, gRPC uses a protocolbuffer-based binary protocol to communicate with
gRPC services and clients. gRPC also implements protocol buffers on top of HTTP/2,
which makes it even faster for inter-process communication.

- It has simple, well-defined service interfaces and schema:
  gRPC fosters a contract-first approach for developing applications. You first
  defined the service interfaces and then work on the implementation details
  afterward.

- It's strongly typed: Since we use protocol buffers to define gRPC services,
gRPC service contracts clearly define the types that you will be using for
communication between the applications.

- It's polyglot: gRPC is designed to work with multiple programming languages.
A gRPC service definition with protocol buffers is language agnostic.

- It has duplex streaming: gRPC has native support for client or server-side
streaming, which is baked into the service definition itself. This makes it much
easier to develop streaming services or streaming clients.

- It has built-in commodity features: gRPC offers built-in support for commodity
featues such as authentication, encryption, resiliency, metadata exchange,
compression, load balancing, service discovery and so on.

- It's mature and widely adopted

## Disadvantages of gRPC

- It may not be suitable for external-facing services:  
When you want to expose the application or services to an external client over
the internet, gRPC may not be the most suitable protocol as most of the external
consumers are quite newly about gRPC and REST/HTTP. the contract-driven
strongly typed nature of gRPC services may hinder the flexibility of
the services.

- Drastic service definition changes are a complicated development process
Schema modifications are quite common in modern inter-service communicaton use
cases.

- The ecosystem is relatively small: The gRPC ecosystem is still relatively
small compared to the conventional REST/HTTP protocol.
