# Geting Started With GRPC

## Defining Messages

The message is the data structure that is exchanged between a client and a
service.
We can either define our own message type that contains a string field or use
the well known message type google.protobuf.StringValue, provided by the
protocol buffer library

```pb

message ProductId{
  string value = 1;
}

message Product{
  string id = 1;
  string name = 2;
  string description = 3;
  float price = 4;
}

```

## Defining services

A service is a collection of remote methods that ae exposed to a client.
the ProductInfo service has two remote methods: addProduct(product) and getProduct(procut8id)

```protobuf

syntax = "proto3";

package ecommerce;

service ProductInfo{
  rpc addProduct(Product) returns (ProductId);
  rpc getProduct(ProductId) returns (Product)
}

message Product{
  string id = 1;
  string name = 2;
  string description = 3;
}

message ProductId{
  string value = 1;
}

```

1. The service definition begins with specifying the protocol buffer version
that we use

2. Package names are used to prevent name classhes between protocol message types
and also will be used to generate code.

3. Definition of the service interface of the service.

4. Remothe method to add a product that returns the product ID as a response

5. Remote method to get a product based on the product ID.

6. Definition of the message format/type of Product

7. Field (name-value pair) that holds the productID with unique field numbers that
are used to identify your fields in the message binary format.


## Developing a Service

When you generate the service skeleton code, you will get the low-level code required
to establish the gRPC communication, relevant message types and interfaces.
the task of servic implementaiton is all about implementing the interfaces that are
generated with the code generation step.
