## Storage in AWS

	- Elastic Block Storage 
	- Elastic File system 
	- Simple Storage Service (S3)

### Elastic BLock storage: 

	- In simple terms, Amazon Elastic Block storage is a hard drive for a server in AWS. 
	- One advantage of Amazon EBS over many typical hard drives is that you can easily detach 
	it from one server and attach it to another server using software commands.

When using EBS, data is persisted. meaning data lives even after the server is shut down. 

### Elastic FIle system


### S3 Standard 

The S3 standard delivers highly performant, available, and durable storage for data that will be 
accessed frequently. S3 standard has low latency, high performance, and high scalability. 
It is suited for a long list of use cases, including the following: 

	- Websites with dynamic content 
	- Distribution of content 
	- Cloud services and applications 
	- Data analytics and processing 
	- Mobile and gaming applications 




#### Amazon S3 intelligent-Tiering 

The s3 intelligent-Tiering storage service can reduce expenses by systematically moving files to the most 
cost-effective way to store data while having no impact on operations or performance. It can do this by 
keeping the files in two tiers: 

	- An optimized tier for frequent access 
	- An optimized tier for infrequent access that has a lower cost 

Amazon S3 constantly scans access patterns of files and transfers files that have not been accessed. If a file 
has not 

#### Amazon S3 Glacier 

When its known that a file will not be needed immediately, S3 glacier is a good option. S3 glacier is 
a secure, durable class for data archiving. It is significantly cheapter than S3 Standard, but will take 
longer to retrive an S3 glacier file. 

#### S3 Glacier Deep Archive 

S3 Glacier deep archive is amazon's S3 cheapest option for object storage. It enables long-term storage. 
It is suited for files that are only going to be retrieved occasionally. It is designed for customers 
that are required to keep data for 7 years or longer. One of the reasons for this requireement may 
be to meet a regulatory compliance regulation. 

### Difference between block storage and object storage 

EBS stores data in blocks, whereas S3 stores data as objects. 

Amazon S3 is good for and often used to do the following: 

	- Host static websites and pages 
	- Host web images and videos 
	- Store petabytes scale amounts of data to perform data analytics on it 
	- Assisting in mobile applications.

Amazon EBS is well suited for the following: 

	- Support businesss continuity 
	- Host big data applications that require high control of the environment using Hadoop, Spark and similar
	frameworks 

	- Enable software testing 
	- Deployment of databases that need to be managed by the user and not AWS 

## Amazon CloudFront 

Amazon CloudFront is a content delivery Network (CDN) that can cache content stored in Amazon S3 and 
distribute it accross disperse geographic regions with thousandxs of Point of Presence around the world. 

## Amazon ElastiCache 

Amazon ElastiCache is a managed AWS service that enables you to store objects in memory instead of storing 
them on disk.

ElastiCache will provision Amazon EC2 instances that will cache objects in the instance's
memory. Doing so will reduce latency when retrieving objects by orders of magnitude.
Using Amazon ElastiCache does require subtly changing application logic

## Amazon S3 Transfer Acceleration 

Yet another way to achieve single-digit millisecond responses is to use Amazon S3
Transfer Acceleration. This AWS service uses CloudFront edge locations to accelerate
data transport over long distances. Amazon S3 Transfer Acceleration is ideally suited to
transfer a large amount of data (gigabytes or terabytes) that needs to be transferred across
AWS Regions.

You should consider using S3 Transfer acceleration in the following cases: 

	- Application requirements call for the need to upload files to a central location for many places around the globe.
	- There is a need to transfer hundreds of gigabytes or terrabytes worth of data regularly accross AWS regions 

	- THe available bandwidth is not being fully utilized and leveraged when uploading to Amazon S3 

The Benefits of Amazon S3 Transfer Acceleration are as follows: 

	- It will allow you to transfer files faster and more consistently over long distances 
	- It can reduce network variability usage 
	- It can shorten the  distance traveled to upload files to S3 
	- It will enable you to maximize bandwidth utilization. 
