## Message Queues

A message broker is installed onto a server or a set of servers, and a series of name
queues and exchanges are defined where they are registerd with the message broker.
An application can then send a message to the queue and any number of receiving systems.
can receive the message and act on its contents.

Features of queuing systems:

  - Durability: Messages can either be kept in memory or persisted to disk
  if they are persisted to disk, then the message will be preserved should the server
  containing the queues crash. If this happens, once the server comes back up, the receiving
  applications can pick up where they left off

  - Security: A message broker should be able to let you set up different security
  permissions for differeent users. some applications may have permissions to write
  but not read from the queue.

  - Time To Live: A message may have a time to live property set on it. This will mean
  a message can be set to expire after a certain timespan.

  - Filtering and routing: A messaging system might have the ability to filter the
  messages to decide to which queue a message should be delivered.  

  - Batching: Batching allows messages to be saved up and then delivered all the same
  time as part of a larger batch, this is typically used hen a destination server is not
  always online.

  - Receipt Acknoledgment: A message publisher may reuire an acknoledgement from the
  message broker that the message has been successfully delivered.


## Message Queueing Protocols

  - Advanced Message Qeuing Protocol (AMQP): This is a feature-rich message
  queing protocol and it is the protocol used by RabbitMQ

  - Streaming Text-Oriented Messaging Protocol (STOMP): Stomp is a simple text-based
  messaging protocol.


## RabbitMQ Overviws

The RabbitMQ server is a message broker that acts as the message coordinator for
the applications that you want to integrate together. This means that you can give
your systems a common platform for sending and receiving messages.

RabbitMQ containes many features to make your systems integration as painless as possible
These include:

- Reliability: With RabbitMq being built on top of Erlang, the message broker is already
built on top of solid, high performance, reliable, and durable foundations. Messages can
be peristed to disk to guard from lost messages in the event that a server is restarted

- Routing: RabbitMQ works by passing your messsages through exchanges before they are stored
in a queue. There are different exchange types whith let you perform routing. but you
can also work with more complex routing scenarios by binding exchanges together.

- Clustering and High Availability: To increase the reliability and availability of
RabbitMQ, you can cluster several servers together on a local network which form a single
logical message broker. Queues can also be mirrored accross multiple servers in a cluster
so that, in the advent of a server failure, you will not lose any messages.

- Managemment Web User interface: RabbitMQ comes with a browser based UI that let  
you manage users and their permissions, exchange, queues, and more


# AMPQ Messaging Standard

RabbitMQ is built on top of AMPQ. This is a network protocol that enables client applications
to communicate with a compatible messaging system.

A message broker works by receiving messages from a client (publisher) and that broker
routes the message to a receiving application (consumer).

=> With the AMQP protocl, a message is published by an applicaiton to an exchange. The
exchange can be thought of as a mailbox. The exchange then sends the message to a queue
by using different rules called bindings. This is all within the message broker.

## Exchanges

Exchanges are AMQP entities where messages are sent to the message broker. Exchanges
take a message and then route it one or more queues. The type of routing depends upon
the exchange type used and different exchange rules called bindings.  

Each exchange is also declared with a number of different attributes. The most important
attributes to us are:

  - Name: The name of the exchange
  - Durability: This flag determines whether or not messages sent to the exchange survive
  - Auto-Delete: This flag determines if the exchange is deleted when all the queues have
  finished using it.
  - Arguments: These are message broker dependent.

AMPQ message brokers contain a default exchange that is a direct exchange with no name
that has been predeclared. It has one special property that makes it useful for simple
applications: every queue that is created is automatically bound to it with a routing
key which is the same as the queue name.

For example, when you declare a queue with the name of "payment-requests", the message
broker will bind it to the default exchange by using, "payment-requests" as the routing
key.

### Direct Exchange

A direct exchange delivers messages to queues that are based on a message routing key.
A direct exchahge is ideal if you need to publish a message onto just one queue.

A direct exchange works as follows: a queue binds to the exchange with a routing key
(payment-message, for example). Then when a new message with a routing key of payment-message
arrives at the direct exchange, the exchange routes the message to the queue if both
routing keys match.

Direct queues are commonly used to distribute messages between multiple worker processes in
a round robin manner.  

### Fanout Exchange

A fanout exchange routes messages to all of the queues that are bound to it and
the routing key is ignored. if 10 queues are bound to a fanout exchange, when a new
message is published to that exchange. a copy of the message is delivered to all 10 queues.
Fanout exchanges are ideal for the broadcast routing of messages.

This is in contrast to the direct exchange where the message is targeted to the releveant
queue by using the routing key. So, if you want to broadcast a message to all of the queue
consumers, the fanout exchange is what you want to use.

Some example uses of this might be:

- Sending online game scores to all players
- Sending wheather updates to all interested systems
- Chat session between groups of people

### Topic Exchange

Topic exchanges route messages to one or many queues based upon matching between
a mesage routing key and the pattern that was used to bind a queue to an exchange.
The topic exchange type is often used to implement various publish/subscribe pattern
variations. Topic exchanges are commonly used for the multicast, routing of messages
to different queues.

Topic exchanges have a broad set of use cases. Whenever a problem involves multiple
consumers/applications that selectively choose which type of messages they want to receive,
the use of topic exchanges should be considered.

A topic exchange works by using a wildcarded routing key. For example, in the context of a
company departmental hierarchy, if you send a message to all .*.*, the message will be sent
to all of the departments

Some typical example of this exchange might be:

- Sending messages to relevant departments in an organization
- Stock prices for certain types of companies
- Categorised news updates (e.g business, technology, entertainment).

### Headers Exchange

The headers exchnge is for routing on multiple attributes that are expresssed in headers.
This means that the routing key is ignored for this type of exchange due to the fact that
it can only express on piece of information. You can assign multiple header values that pass
into the exchange and are routed to the queues.


## Queues

Queues in AMQP are similr to queues in any other messaging system. Messages are placed
onto a queue and they work on a first in, first out basis. Queues have the following
additional properties over exchanges:

- Name: The name of the queue
- Durable: The queue and messages will survive a broker or server restart
- Exclusive: the  queue is used by only one connection and the queue will be deleted
when that colleciton closes.
- Auto Delete: The queue is deleted when the consumer unsubscribes.

Before you can use a queue, it must be declared. If the queue doesn't already exist,
it will be created. If the queue already exists, the redeclaring the queue will
have no additional effect on the queue that already exists.

Queue names can be picked by the application or they can be automatically named by
the broker that generates them. We will see examples of this later in the book.

Queues can be made durable which means the queue is peristed to the disk. This only
makes the queue persistent and not the messages. Queue durability means the queue
will be redeclared once the broker is restarted.

## Bindings:

When you want to define rules that specify how messages are routed from exchanges to
qeueus, you need to define bindings. Bindings may have an optional routing key attribute
that is used by some exchange types to route messages from the exchange to the queue.
The purpose of the routing key is to select certain messages published to an exchange
to be routed to the bound queue.

## Consumers

Typically applications that register to a queue.

### Message Acknoledgments

When a consuming application acts on a message from the queue. It is possible
that a problme could occur in that application which means that message is lost.
Generally when an application acts on a message, that message is removed from the queue
but you may not want this to happen. until you have successfully processed the message

The AMQP protocol gives several ways of defining when a message is removed from the queue:

    - The message is removed once the broker has sent the message to the application
    - The message is removed once the application has sent an acknoledgement back to the
    broker.

### Rejecting Messages

When an application processes a message, that processing may or may not succeed. If the
processing fails for any reason (for example, there is a databas time-out), then
the consuming appplication can reject the message. When this happens, the application
can ask the broker to discard the message or requeue it. If there is only one consumer
application subscribed to a queue.
