## Publish subscribe

### Exchanges

The core idea in the messaging model in RabbitMQ is that the producer never sends
any messages directly to a queue. Actually, quite often the producer doesn't even
know if a message will be delivered to any queue at all.

Instead the producer can only send messages to an exchange. An exchange is
a very simple thing. One one side it recieves messages from producers and the
other side it pushes them to queues. The exchange must know exactly what to do
with a message it receives. Should it be appended to a particular queue

There are a few exchange types available: direct, topic, headers and fanout.

Let's focus on the fanout exchange:

```go

err = ch.ExchangeDeclare(
  "logs",
  "fanout",
  true, // durable
  false, // auto-deleted
  false, // internal
  false, // no-wait
  nil, // arguments
)
```

The fanout exchange is very simple. It just broadcasts all the mesages it
receives to all the queues it knows. And that's exactly what we need.

#### Listing Exchanges

To list the exchanges on the server you can run the ever useful rabbitmqctl command

```bash

sudo rabbitmqctl list_exchanges

```

### Temporary Queues

When we are only interested in receiving current messages, not old ones.
To do this we create a queue with an empty name and the server will assign
a name to the queue, and set the queue such as when its disconnected the
queue is automatically deleted

```go

q, err := ch.QueueDeclare(
  "", // name
  false, // durable
  false, // delete when unused
  true, // exclusive
  false, // no-wait
  nil, // arguments
)

```

### Bindings

We've already created a fanout exchange and a queue. Now we need to tell the exchange
to send messages to our queue. That relationship between exchange and a queue is called
a binding.

A binding is a relationship between an exchange and one or more queues.

```go

err = ch.QeueBind(
  q.Name,
  "", // routing key
  "logs", // exchange
  false,
  nil,
)

```
