#  vectors

- Scalars, such as temperature, have magnitude only. They are specified
by a number with a unit (10°C) and obey the rules of arithmeti c and ordinary
algebra. Vectors such as displacement, have both magnitude and direction (5m, north)
and obey the rules of vector algebra.

- Adding Vectors geometrically: Two vectors ->a and ->b  may be added by geometrically
by drawing them to  common scale and placing them head to tail. The vector connecting
the tail of the first to the head of the second is the vector sum ->s.
To subtract ->b from ->a, reverse the direction of ->b to get ->b; then add
minus ->b to ->a. Vector addition is commutative

    -> a + ->b = ->b + ->a

and obey the associative law.

  (->a + ->b) + ->c = ->a + (->b + ->c)

- Components of a vector: The scalar components a_x and a_y of any two dimensional
vector ->a along the coordinates axes are found by dropping perpendicular lines from
the ends of -> onto the coordinate axes. The components are given by

    => a_x = a cos Θ and a_y = a sin Θ

Where Θ is the angle between the positive direction of the x axis and the direction of
->a. The algebraic sign of a component indicates its direction along the associated axis.
Given its components, we can find the magnitude and orientation of the vector by using

a = sqrt(a_x^2 + a_y^2) and tan Θ = a_y/a_x

* Unit-Vector Notation: Unit vectos î,j, and k have magnitudes of unity and are directed
in the positive directions of the x, y and z axes respectively, in a right-handed coordinate
system. We can write a vector ->a in terms of unit vectors as

=> ->a = ax_i + ay_j + az_k

In which ax_i, ay_j and az_k are the vector components of ->a and ax, ay and az
are its scalar components.


- Adding Vectors in Component form: To add vectors in component form, we use the rules.

rx = ax + bx, ry = ay + by; rz = az + bz

Here a and b are the vectors to be added and ->r is the vector sum. Note that we
add components axis by axis. We can then express the sum in unit vector notation or magnitued
angle notation.

- Product of a scalara and a vector: The product of a scalar s and a vector ->v is a new vector
whose magnitude is sv and whose direction is the same as that of ->v if s is positive and opposite that of ->v if s is negative. Ti divde -> by s multiply ->v by 1/s

- The scalar product: The scalar (or dot) product of two vectors ->a and ->b is written:
  ->a . ->b = ab cos (Phi),

In wich (Phi) is the angle between the directions of ->a and ->b. A scalar product is the
product of the magnitude of one vector and the scalar component of the second vector along the
direction of the first vector. Note that ->a.->b = ->b.->a, which means that the scalar product
obeys the commutative law. In unit-vector notation:

    ->a.->b = (ax_i + ay_j + az_k) . (bx_i + by_j + bz_k)

Which may be expanded according to the distributive law.

- The vector product: of two vectors ->a and ->b is written ->a x ->b and is a vector ->c
whose magnitude c is given by
    c = ab sin (Phi)

In which (Phi) is the smaller of the angles between the direction of ->a and ->b. The direction
of ->c is perpendicular to the plane defined by ->a and ->b and is given by a right-hand rule,
as shown in Fig 3-19. Note that ->a x ->b = - (->b X ->a), which means that the vector product
does not obey the commutative law.

In unit-vector notation:
    ->a x ->b = (ax_i + ay_j + az_k) X (bx_i + by_j + bz_k)


A vector has magnitude as well as direction, and vectors follow certain rules of
combination. A vector quantity is a quantity that has both a magnitude and direction
and thsu can be represented with a vector. Some physical quantities that are vector
quantities are displacement, velocity and acceleration. You will see many more Throughoutthis book, so learning the rules of vector combination now will help you greatly in later chapters.
