# Motion In Two and Three Dimensions

## Position Vector:

The location of a particle relative to the origin of
a coordinate system is given by a position vector ->r, which in unit-vector noation
is
      ->r = x(i) + y(j) + z(k)

Here x(i), y(j) and z(k) are the components fo position vector ->r and x, y, and z are its
scalar components. (as well as the coordinates of the particle). A position vector is described
either by a magnitude and one or two angles for orientation, or by its vector or scalar components.

## Displacement:

 If a particle moves so that it's position vector changes from ->r1 to ->r2
the particle's displacement d(->r) (Delta ->r) is

  delta(->r) = (->r2) - (->r1)

The displacement can also be written as

  delta(->r) = (x2 - x1)(i) + (y2 - y1)(j) + (z2 - z1)(k)
     = delta(x(i)) + delta(y(j)) + delta(z(k))


## Average velocity and Instantaneous velocity:

 If a particle undergoes a displacement
d(->r) in time interval d(t), its average volocity ->v_avg for that time is:

  ->v_avg = d(->r)/d(t)

As delta(t) is shrunk to 0, ->v_avg reaches a limit called either the velocity or the
instantaneous velocity ->v.

    ->v = delta(->r)/delta(t)

Which can be rewritten in unit-vector notation as:

  ->v = v_x(i) + v_y(j) + v_z(k)

Where v_x = delta(x)/delta(t); v_y = delta(y)/delta(t) and v_z = delta(z)/delta(t).
The instantaneous velocity ->v of a particle is always directed along the tangent to the
particle's path at the particle's position.

## Average acceleration and instantaneous acceleration:

If a particle's velocity changes
from ->v1 to ->v2 in time interval delta(t), its average acceleration during delta(t) is

  ->a_avg = ->v2 - ->v1/ delta(t) = delta(->v)/delta(t)

As delta(t) is shrunk to 0 , ->a_avg reaches a limiting value called to either the acceleration
or the instantaneous acceleration ->a:

  ->a = delta(->v)/delta(t)

In unit vector notation, ->a = a_x(i) + a_y(j) + a_z(k)

Where a_x = delta(v_x)/delta(t); a_y = delta(v_y)/delta(t); a_z = delta(v_z)/delta(t)

## Projectile Motion:

Projectile motion is the motion of a particle that is launched with an initial velocity ->v0.
During its flight, the particle's horizontal acceleration is zero and its vertical acceleration
is the free-fall acceleration -g (Upward is taken to be a positive direction). If ->v0 is
expressed as a magnitude (the speed v0) and angle Theta_0 (measured from the horizontal)
The particle's equation of motion along the horizontal x axis and vertical y axis are.

    => x - x0 = (v_0 cos(Theta_0))*t
    => y - y0 = (v_0 sin(Theta_0))*t - (1/2)*g*(t^2)
    => v_y = v_0 sin(Theta_0) - g*t,
    => v^2_y = (v_0 sin(Theta_0)^2) - 2g(y - y0)

The trajectory (path) of a particle in projectile motion is parabolic and is given by

    y = (tan(Theta_0))*x - g(x^2)/2(v_0 *cos(Theta_0))^2

If x_0 and y_0 are zero. The particle's horizontal range (R), which is the horizontal
distance from the launch point to the point at which the particle returns to the launch
height, is

        R = (v_0**2/g) * (sin(2 *Theta_0))

## Uniform Circular Motion:

If a particle travels along a circle or circular arc of radius r at constant speed v, it is
said to be in uniform circular arc of radius r at constant speed v, it is said to be in
uniform circular motion and has an acceleration of ->a of constant magnitude

          a = v^2/r

The diration of ->a is toward the center of the circle or circular arc. and ->a is said to
be "centripetal". The time for the particle to complete a circle is

          T = 2*PI*r/v

## Relative Motion:

When two frames of reference A and B are moving relative to each other at a constant
velocity, the velocity of a particle P as measured by an observer in frame A usually
differs from that measured from frame B. The two measured velocities are related by

        ->v_pa = ->v_pb + ->v_ba

Where ->v_ba is the velocity of B with respect to A. Both observers measure the same
acceleration for the particle:

        ->a_pa = ->a_pb
