# Force And Motion I

## Key Ideas

- The velocity of an object can change (the object can accelerate) when the object
is acted on by one or more forces, (pushes or pulls) from other objects. Newtonian
mechanics relates accelerations and forces.

- Forces are vector quantities. Their magnitudes are defined in terms of the acceleration
they would give the standard kilogram. A force that accelerates that standard body by
extacly 1 m/s² is defined to have a magnitude of 1N. The direction of a force is the
direction of the acceleration it causes. Forces are combined according to the rules of
vector algebra. The net force on a body is the vector sum of all the forces acting on the
body.

- If there is no net force on a body, the body remains at rest if it is initiallly at rest
or moves in a straight line at a constant speed if it is in motion.

- Reference frames in which Newtonian mechanics holds are called initial reference frames
or inertial frames. Reference frames in which Newtonian mechanics does not hold are
called noninertial reference frames or noninertial frames.

- The mass of a body is the characteristic of that body that relates the body's acceleration
to the net force causing the acceleration. Masses are scalar quantities.

- The net force ->F_net on a body with mass "m" is related to the body's acceleration ->a
by:
      -F_net = m*(->a)

    Which may be written in the component versions

    F_net_x = m*a_x; F_net_y = m(a_y); F_net_z = m(a_z)

    The second law indicates that in SI units

    1N = 1Kg m/s²

- A free-body diagram is a stripped-down diagram in which only one body is considered.
That body is represented by either a sketch or a dot. The external forces on the body
are drawn, and a coordinate system is superimposed, oriented so as to simplify the solution.


## Newtonian Mechanics:

The velocity of an object can change (the object can accelerate) when the object is acted
on by one or more forces (pushes or pulls) from other objects. Newtonian mechanics
relates accelerations and forces.

## Force

Forces are vector quantities. Their magnitudes are defined in terms of the accelearation
they would give the standard kilogram. A force that accelerates that standard body by
exactly 1 m/s² is defined to have a magnitude of 1N. The direction of a force is
the direction of the acceleration it causes. Forces are combined according to the rules
of vector algebra. The net force on a body is the vctor sum of all the forces acting on that body.

## Newton's First Law:

If there is no net force on a body, the body remains at rest if it is initially at rest or
moves in a straight line at constant speed if it is in motion.

## Inertial Reference Frames:

Reference frames in which newtonial mechanics holds are called
initertial reference frames or inertial frames. Reference frmaes in which Newtonian
mechanics does not hold are called noninertial reference frames or noninertial frames.

## Mass

The mass of a body is the characteristic of that body that relates the body's acceleration
to the net force causing the acceleration. Masses are scalar quantities.

## Newton's second Law:

The net force ->F_net on a body with mas sm is related to the body's acceleration ->a
by
    F_net = m*(->a)


A *Free-body diagram* is a stripped-down diaram in which only one body is considered.
That body is represented by either a sketch or a dot. The external forces on the body
are drawn and a coordinate system is superimposed, oriented so as to simplify the solution.

## Some Particular Forces

- Gravitational Force ->F_g on a body is apull by another body. In most situation,
the other body is earth (in the book) or some other astronomical body. For earth,
the force is directed down toward the ground, wich is assumed to be an inertial frame.
With that assumption, the magnitude of ->F_g is

    F_g = m*g

Where m is the body's mass and g is the magnitude of the free-fall acceleration.

The weight W of a body is the maginitude of the upward force needed to balance the Gravitational
force on the body. A body's weight is related to the body's mass by

        W = mg

- A normal force ->F_N is the force on a body from a surface against wich the body presses.
The normal force is always perpendicular to the surface.

- A frictional force ->*f* is the force on a body  when the body slides or attempts to slide
along a surface. The force is always parallel to the surface and directed so as to oppose
the sliding. On a frictionless surface, the frictional force is negligible.

Whe a cord is under tension, each end of the cord pull on a body. The pull is directed along the cord, away from the point of attachment on the body. For a massless cord, ( a cord with
  negligible mass), the pulls at both ends of the cord have the same magnitude T, even if
  the cord runs around a massless, frictionless pulley. ( a pulley with negligible mass and)
  negligible friction on its axel to oppose its rotation).

## Newton's Third Law:

If a force ->F_BC acts on body B due to body C, then there is a force ->F_CB on body C due
to body B:

        ->F_BC = -(->F_CB)


## Exercices

1. Only two horizontal forces can act on a 3.0 kg body that can move over
  a fricioneless floor. One force is 9.0N, acting due east and the other is
  8.0N acting 62° north of west. What is the magnitude of the body's acceleration?

  Solution: we known that F = m*a, a = F/m, 
  We have two forces pushing in opposite directions, so the total force will 
  be F2 - F1, wich gives us 9.0N - 80N, wich gives us 1.0N, the mass of the object
  is 3.0kg so the acceleration will be 
      a = (9.0-8.0)/3.0 
  The magnitude of the acceleration vector is given by = sqrt((F_1/m)^2 + (F_2/m)^2))


2. A 0.150kg particle moves along an x axis according to x(t) = -13.0 + 2.00t + 4.00t^2 - 3.00t^3, with x in meters and t in seconds. In unit vector notation, what is the net force acting on the particle at t = 3.40?

  Solution: 
    To solve the problem, we note that acceleration is the second time derivative
    of the position function, and the net force is related to the acceleration via 
    Newton's second law, thus differentiating

        x(t) = -13.0 + 2.00t + 4.00t^2 - 3.00t^3 
        => dx/dt = 2.00 + 8.00t - 9.00t^2
        => d'' = 8.00 - 18.00t

        The net force acting on the particle at t = 3.40 is

        ->F = m(d²x/dt²i) = (0.150)[8.00 - 18.00(3.40)]î = (-7.98N)î


3. A 2.0 kg particle moves along an x axis, being propelled by a variable force directed along that axis, Its position is given by x = 3.0m + (4.0m/s)t + ct^2 - (2.0m/s^3)t^3, with 
  x in meters and t in seconds. The factor c is a constant. At t = 3.0s the force on the 
  particle has a magnitude of 36N and is in the negative direction of the axis. What is c

  Solution:

  The velocity is the derivative (with respect to time) of given function x, and the acceleration is the derivative of the velocity. Thus a = 2c - 3(2.0)(2.0)t, which we
  use in Newton's second law: F = (2.0kg)a = 4.0c - 24t (with SI units understood).
  At t = 3.0s we are told that F = -36N, thus -36=4.0c - 24(3.0). which can be used to 
  solve for c, thus c = +9.0m/s²