# Force And Motion II

- Distinguish between friction in a static situation
    and a kinetic situation
- Determine the magnitude and direction of a fricional force
- For objects on horizontal, vertical or inclined planes in situations
    involving friction, draw free-body diagrams and apply Newton's second law

## Key Ideas

* When a force ->F tends to slide a body along a surface, a frictional 
  force is parallel to the surface and is directed so as to oppose the sliding
  it is due to the bonding between the body and the surface. If the body does 
  not slide, the frictional force is a static frictional force.

* If a body does not move, the static frictional force ->f_s and the component of ->F
    parallel to the surface are equal in magnitude, and ->f_s is directed opposite
    that component. If the component increases ->f_s also increases.

* The magnitude of ->f_s has a maximum value of ->f_s_max given by
        f_s_max = mu_s * F_n

    Where µ, is the coefficient of static fricition and F_N is the magnitude of 
    then normal force. If the component ->F parallel to the surface exceeds f_s_max
    the body slides on the surface.

* If the body begins to slide on the surface, the magnitude of the frictional force
    rapidly decreases to a constant value f_k given  by
            f_k = µ_k * F_N

    Where µ_k is the coefficient of the kinetic friction.


## Friction

When a force ->F tends to slide a body along a surface a frictional force from the surface acts on the body. The frictional force is parallel to the surface and directed so as to oppose the sliding. It is due to bonding between the atoms on the body and the atoms on the surface.
an effect called cold-welding.

If the body does not slide, the frictional force is a static frictional force ->f. If there is sliding the frictional force is a kinetic frictional force ->f_k

1. If a body does not move, the static frictional force ->f_s and the component of ->F parallel to the surface are equal in magnitude, and ->f_s is
    directed opposite of that component. If the 
    component increases f_s also increases.

2. The magnitude of ->f_s has a maximum value f_s_max given by 
    f_s_max = µ_s * F_N,

    Where µ, is the coefficient of static friction and F_N is the magnitude of the normal force. If the component of ->F parallel to the surface exceeds f_s_max, the static friction is overwhelmed and the body slides on the surface.

3. If the body begins to slide on the surface, the magnitude of the frictional force rapidly decreases to a constant value f_k given by 
    f_k = µ_k * F_N

## Drag Force

When there is relative motion between air (or some other fluid) and a body, the body experiences
a drag force ->D that opposes the relative motion and points in the direction in which the fluid flows relative to the body. The magnitude of ->D
relative speed v by an experimentally determined
drag coefficient C accoring to 

        D = (1/2)*C*p*A*v²
Where p is the fluid density (mass per unit volume) and A is the effective cross-sectional area of the body (the area of a cross section taken perpendicular to the relative velocity ->v)

## Terminal Speed:

When a blunt object has fallend far enough through air, the magnitude of the drag force ->D and the gravitational force ->F_g on the body become equal. The body then falls at a constant 
terminal speed v_t given by.

        v_t = sqrt(2F_g/CpA)


## Uniform Circular Motion: 

If a particle moves in a circle or a circular arc
of radius R at constant speed v, the particle is 
said to be in uniform circular motion. It then has
centripetal acceleration ->a with a magnitude given by 
        a = v²/R

This acceleration is due to a net centripetal force on the particle, with magnitude given by.

        F = mv²/R

Where m is the particle's mass. The vector quantities ->a and ->F are directed toward the center of curvature of the particle's path. A 
particle can move in circular motion only if a net
centripetal force acts on it.