# Online Business Ideas (2024)

## A platform for digital marketing content management accross social networks

### Pain Points

=>As a currently single person operation for www.skullsy.com

Advertising/Marketing; Marketing : Keeping up with instagram, Pinterest, facebook and twitter; releasing fresh content and growing. Instagram and facebook growth is consistent, however havent had much time on twitter(only just now getting into it) and pinterest. i feel like maybe pinterest and instagram can help get more sales. Pinterest im lost, instagram not so much.

Advertising - Messing around with Facebook ads, trying to find the best conversions. Garnering lots of traffic and have gotten sales from them, but figuring what sticks whatpeople wnat and what converts has been a challenge. After two days of lots of traffic and cart ads but no sales im considering dropping it for a bit while i try out Google Adwords and the credit they gave me. Even with adwords, im a newbie so i dont know how to effectively use these credits.

## Capital Provision for Small businesses

### Pain Points

=> Huge pain point would be having the capital to give my business the base it needs to get it off its initial starting point


## Remote work management

### Pain Points

=> Employment. I saw what the target salary for an employee in my business could be, and I almost doubled it.

I was really surprised at how difficult this is. I can't find people that want to take the work. It offers a tremendous degree of freedom and strangely enough I think that is a downside. If I don't give daily instructions, they balk. It's remote, at-your-own-pace stuff.

It's a frustrating experience.


## Hiring Management


## Cybersecurity and Intelligence Gathering (State and Business Level)

### Pain Points
     - Surveillance from foreign intelligence agencies
     - Intelligence gathering from malevolant foreign actors
     - Crisis prevention and prediction
