# Building a domain driven monolithic application (after defining)  

from scratch. How to apply DDD principles to an existing application that was not 
created using DDD from the beginning. 

By the end of this chapter, you will be able to understand the following topics: 

## What's a monolithic app 

We call a monolithic application if all the different components of the system are 
encapsulated into a single uint. For example, if the UI, several domains, and infrastructure services are combined into a single deployable unit. 


The following figure illustrate this 

    - Browser ==> [UserInterface, PaymentService, TransactionService] ==> MySQL database 

Monolithic apps remain popular for the following reasons: 
    - They are simple to develop 
    - They are simple to deploy. 
    - They are simple to scale. 

However, there are also some major downsides. These downsides tend to appear as the application grows in complexity. and /or scale. 

    - The startup time for the application can become multiple minutes. This quicly adds 
    up to many hours wasted by engineers during development 
    - Scaling the application starts to become difficult. In addition to the slow startup 
    time, which can impact customers, monoliths can only typically scale into one dimension

    - Continuous deployment becomes slow. Even if you make a small code change to a specific part you must deploy the entire app. 

    - A long-term commitement to a specific technology stack is necessary. If your monolithic app is written in PHP, you must continue using PHP 

    - Changes become difficult to make. With the pressure of delivery and the barrier 
    to begining development getting higher, oftentimes, the modularity of the system 
    can become blurred. 


## Setting the scene 

Domain driven design is all about solving business invariants in a specific context, a 