# Packaging Code

## Object Orientation in Go - The Struct

In Go, instead of classes (like java and c++) the equivalent container for encapsulation
is called a struct. It describes attributes of the objects for this class.  

```go

type Animal struct{
  Name string
  CanFly bool
}

animal := &Animal{Name: "Elephant", CanFly: false}

```

You can also use dots with pointers to objects (rather than the actual object).
The pointers are automatically dereferenced.

```go

elePhantPtr := &animal

```

=> Methods: are functions that operate on a particular struct. They have a receiver
clause that mandates what type they operate on. For example, consider the following
struct and method.

```go

type Person struct{
  name string
  age int
}

func (p Person) canVote() bool{
  return p.Age > 18
}

```

In the preceding example, the language construct between the func keyword and
the method name is the receiver.

(p Person)

This is analogous to the self or this construct of other object-oriented languages.
You can view receiver parameters analogous to this or self-identifiers in other languages.
There can only be one receiver. and you can defined methods using pointer receivers.

=> A pointer recever method makes for Pass-By-Reference semantics, while a non pointer
one is a Pass-By-Value. Generally, pointe receiver methods are used if either of
the following apply:

    - You want to actually modify the receiver (read/write, as opposed to just read)
    - The struct is very large and deep copy is expensive.

Slices and maps act as references, so even passing them as value will allow mutation
of the objects. It should be noted that a pointer receiver method can work with a non
pointer type and vice-versa.  

```go

package main

import (
  "fmt"
)

type Person struct{
  Name string
  Age int
}

func (p *Person) Grow(){
  p.Age++
}

func (p Person) DoesNotGrow{
  p.Age++
}

func main(){
  p := Person{"JY", 10}
  p.Grow()
  fmt.Println(p.Age)
  ptr := &p
  ptr.DoesNotGrow()
  fmt.Println(p.Age)
}

```

## Object Orientation in Go - Visibility

Managing visibility is key to good class design and in turn, to the ruggedness
of the system. Unlike other object-oriented languages, there are no public or private
keywords in Go, A struct field with a lowercase starting letter is private, while if
it is in uppercase, then it's public.

```go

type Pigeon struct{
  Name string
  featherLength int
}



func (p *Pigeon) GetFeatherLength() int{
  return p.featherLength
}

func (p *Pigeon) SetFeatherLength(length int){
  p.featherLength = length
}

```

=> Inside the pigeon struct we have the following:

    - Name is a public attribute, and the code outside of the package can reference it
    - featherLength is a private attribute, and the code outside of the package cannot
    reference it.

=> The implication of this packaging mean that the following code will not compile
(assuming the code is outside of the Pigeon package):

```go

func main(){
  p := pigeon.Pigeon{"Tweety", 10} // this will not compile
}

```

featherLength is not exposed from the Pigeon package. The right way to instantiate
an object of this strcut would be to use the setter function provided.


```go
func main(){
  p := pigeon.Pigeon{Name : "Tweety"}
  p.SetFeatherLength(10)
  fmt.Println(p.Name)
  fmt.Println(p.GetFeatherLength())

}

```


```go

type LatLong struct{
  Lat float64
  Long float64
}

type Animal interface{
  GetLocation() LatLong
  SetLocation(LatLong)
  CanFly() bool
  Speak()
}

```

In golang, all implementation are implicit. If the method set of a type is T is
a super set of the method set declared by an interface type I, then the type T
implements the interface type I, implicitely.
If T is a named non-interface type, then *T must also implement I, for the method
set of *T is a super set of the method set of T.

```go

type Lion struct{
  name string
  maneLength int
  location LatLong
}

func (lion *Lion) GetLocation() LatLong{
  return lion.location
}

func (lion *Lion) SetLocation(loc LatLong){
  lion.location = loc
}

func (lion *Lion) CanFly() bool{
  return false
}

func (lion *Lion) Speak() string{
  return "roar"
}

func (lion *Lion) GetManeLength() int{
  return lion.maneLength
}

func (lion *Lion) GetName() string{
  return lion.name
}

// The Pigeon Family

type Pigeon struct{
  name string
  location string
}

func (p *Pigeon) GetLocation() LatLong{
  return p.location
}

func (p *Pigeon) SetLocation(loc LatLong){
  p.location = loc
}

func (p *Pigeon) CanFly() bool{
  return true
}

func (p *Pigeon) Speak() string{
  return "hoot"
}

func (p *Pigeon) GetName() string{
  return p.name
}

```

The whole point of this is, of course, polymorphism - Lion and Pigeon can
be used in any place where the animal interface is expected.

```go

// The symphony
func makeThemSing(animals []Animal){
  for _, animal := range animals{
    fmt.Println(animal.GetName() + " says " + animal.Speak())
  }
}

func main(){
  var myZoo []Animal
  Leo := Lion{
    "Leo",
    10,
    LatLong{10.40, 11.15},
  }
  myZoo = append(myZoo, &Leo)

  Tweety := Pigeon{
    "Tweety",
    LatLong{10.15, 11.5},
  }

  myZoo = append(myZoo, &Tweety)
  makeThemSing(myZoo)
}

```

## Object orientation in Go - embedding

Embedding is a mechanism to allow the ability to borrow pieces from different
classes. It is the equivalent of multiple inheritance with non-virtual members.


Let's call Base, struct embeded into a Derived struct. Like normal (public/protected)
subclassing, the fields and methods of the Base class are directly available in the
Derived struct. Internally, a hidden/anonymous field is created with the name
of the base struct

```go

type Bird struct{
  featherLength int
  classification string
}

type Pigeon struct{
  Bird
  Name string
}

func main(){
  p := Pigeon{Name: "Tweety", }
  p.featherLength = 10
  fmt.Println(p)
}

```

Base fields and methods can be shadowed, if redefined in the derived class.
Once shadowed, the only way to access the base member is to use the hidden
field named as the base-struct name

```go

type Bird struct{
  featherLength int
  classification string
}

type Pigeon struct{
  Bird
  featherLength int
  classification string
}

func main(){
  p := Pigeon{Name : "Tweety", }
  p.featherLength = 3.14
  fmt.Println(p)
}

```

This may feel like inheritance, but embedding does not provideé polymorphism.
Embedding differs from subclassing in an important way: when a type is embedded
the methods of that type are available as methods of the outer type; however,
for invocation of the embedded struct methods, the receiver of the method must
be the inner type not the outer none.

==> Embeding can also be done on interfaces.  

```go

type ReadWriter interface{
  Reader
  Writer
}

```

Golang allows multiple structures to be embedded inside one. This gives
the ability to borrow behavior from multiple classes. This is similar
to multiple inheritance.

## Modules

"All code of the package should be private, unless explicitely needed by other
client packages"  

Here is the recommended high-level structure for the code:

- bin: This directory contains the executables; that is; the output of the compiler
- pkg: This folder is for the package objects
- <package>: A folder for each of the top- level pacages that make the
components of the project.

- vendor: This folder hosts third-party dependencies.
- Makefile: this makes it easier to organize various tasks such as compilation
linting, tests, adn also stage code.
- scripts: various scripts including DB provisioning/migrations
- Main driver: The main file that drive the components and control the lifecycle of
the top-level objects.
