# Design Patterns

There are three categories of design patterns

  - Creational
  - Behavioral
  - Structural

## Design Principles

==> S.O.L.I.D

### Single Responsibility principle

A class should only do one thing, this also applies for packages

```go

type Reservation interface{
  GetReservationDate() string
  CalculateCancellationFee() float64
  Cancel()
  GetCustomerDetails() []Customer
  GetSellerDetails() Seller
}

```

### Open/Closed Principe (O)

A class should be opened for extension and closed for modification.
This esentially means that it should be possible to extend  or override class
behavior without having to modify code. Behavior change should be pluggable into
the class, either throurg overriding some methods or injecting some configuration.

==> One common place to use this principle is for algorithms or business logic. In our
travel website, let's say we have two requirements:

  - We should be able to bundle airline and hotel reservations into a Trip object
  - We should be able to calculate the cancellation fee for a trip.

Thus we can model Trips as a struct with a colleciton (repository) of reservations,
and for the cancellation, have each derived type for reservation compute the cancellation
fee as shown below:

```go

type Trip struct{
  reservations []Reservation
}

func (t *Trip) CaclculateCancellationFee() float64{
  total := 0.0

  for _, r := range(t.reservations){
    total += r.CalculateCancellationFee()
  }

  return total
}

func (t *Trip) AddReservation(r Reservation){
  t.reservations = append(t.reservations, r)
}

```

### Liskov Substitution Principle (L)

This is a slight variation of the Open/Closed principle,  
"Derived types must be substituable for their base types"

==> The crux of the principle is that derived classes must be usable thourh
the base class interface without the need for the client to know the specific
derived class.

### Interface Segregation Principle

As our code evolves, it is a common symptom for base classes to be a collect-all
for behavior. A base class should only deal with the common behavior and
have specific interfaces for other behavior

```go

type Reservation interface{
  GetReservationDate() string
  CalculateCancellationFee() float64
}

type HotelReservation interace{
  Reservation
  ChangeType()
}

type FlightReservation interface{
  Reservation
  AddExtraLuggageAllowance(pieces int)
}

type HotelReservationImpl struct{
  reservationDate string
}

func (r HotelReservationImpl) GetReservationDate() string{
  return r.reservationDate
}

func (r HotelReservationImpl) CalculateCancellationFee() float64{
  return 1.0 // float
}

type FlightReservationImpl struct{
  reservationDate string
  luggageAllowed int
}

func (r FlightReservationImpl) AddExtraLuggageAllowance(pieces int){
  r.luggageAllowed = pieces
}

func (r FlightReservationImpl) CalculateCancellationFee() float64{
  return 2.0
}

func (r FlightReservationImpl) GetReservationDate() string{
  return r.reservationDate
}

```

### Dependency inversion principle

The final principle is the Dependency Inversion Principle, which states the
following:

"Depend on abstractions, not on concretions".

This means that higher-level modules should depend only on interaces and not
on concrete implementations. In java huge frameworks such as Spring have come up
as dependency injection capabilities so that beans (object) can be injected
into the application at runtime. while the rest of the code just works with
interfaces of the beans (rather than the concrete implementation).

==> In Go, this principle boils down to two recommendations:

  - Every package should have interfaces that advertise functionality without the
  implementation specifics.
  - When a package needs a dependency, it should take that dependency as a parameter.

==> To illustrate the second point, let's say we have built two packages (layers)
for the search microservice of our travel website:

- Service Layer: this layer has a lot of the business logic for the searching and sorting
- Communication Layer: This layer is just responsible for getting data from different
sellers. Each seller has its own API, and thus this layer has a lot of
diferent implementations of a sellerCommunication interface.

According to this principle, we should be able to inject a specific instantiation
of the communication layer to the service layer.

## Creational Design Pattern

### Factory method

A factory is an object that is used to create other objects.
In a factory method pattern, a helper method (or function) is defined, to enable
object creation without knowing the implementation class details. For example
in the case of reservation, the simple factory can be this.

```go
func NewReservation(vertical, reservationDate string) Reservation{
  switch(vertical){
  case "flight":
    return FlightReservationImpl{reservationDate, }
  case "hotel":
    return HotelReservationImpl{reservationDate, }
  default:
    return nil
  }
}

```

It can be used as follows:

```go

hotelReservation := NewReservation("hotel", "20180101")

```

### Builder

Sometimes, object creation is not straightforward. For example:

  - It might be necessary to have business rules to validate some parameters
  or derive some added attributes. For example, in a reservation, we might derive
  a nonCancellable attribute based on the vertical, seller and travel date details.

  - We might need some code to bring in efficiency, for example, retrieving an object
  from the cache rather than reading from the DB.

  - It might be necessary to have idempotency and thread safety in object creation
  That is multiple requests for object creation with the same parameters should
  give the same object.

  - The objects might have multiple constructor arguments (typically called telescopic)
  constructors, and it is difficult to remember the order of parameters for the clients.
  Some of these parameters might be optional.

```go

type ReservationBuilder interface{
  Vertical(string) ReservationBuilder
  ReservationDate(string) ReservationBuilder
  Build() Reservation
}

type reservationBuilder struct{
  vertical string
  rdate string
}

func (r *reservationBuilder) Vertical(v string) ReservationBuilder{
  r.vertical = va
  return r
}

func (r *reservationBuilder) ReservationDate(date string) ReservationBuilder{
  r.rdate = date
  return r
}

func (r *reservationBuilder) Build() Reservation{
  var buildReservation Reservation

  switch(r.Vertical){
  case "flight":
    buildReservation = FlightReservationImpl{r.date}
  case "hotel":
      buildReservation = HotelReservationImpl{r.date}
  }

  return buildReservation
}

func NewReservationBuilder() ReservationBuilder{
  return &reservationBuilder{}
}

```


### Abstract Factory

With real-life problems, there are many related (family of) objects that need
to be created together. For example, if our travel website decides to give away
invoices for reservations, then with our two verticals we essentially have the
following.

- Two types of entities: reservation and invoice
- Two verticals/types of products: hotel and flight

When the client code is creating such related products, how do we ensure that
clients don't make mistakes (for example, associating a flight invoice to a hotel
  reservation)? The simple factory method does not cut it here.

==> The abstract factory pattern attempts to solve this issue with factory of
factories construct: a factory that groups the different related/dependent
factories together without specifying their concrete classes

```go

type Reservation interface{}
type Invoice interface{}

type AbstractFactory interface{
  CreateReservation() Reservation
  CreateInvoice() Invoice
}

type HotelFactory struct{}

func (f HotelFactory) CreateReservation() Reservation{
  return new(HotelReservation)
}

func (f HotelFactory) CreateInvoice() Invoice{
  return new(HotelInvoice)
}

type FlightFactory struct{}

func (f FlightFactory) CreateReservation() Reservation{
  return new(FlightReservation)
}

func (f FlightFactory) CreateInvoice() Invoice{
  return new(FlightReservation)
}

type HotelReservation struct{}
type HotelInvoice struct{}
type FlightReservation struct{}
type FlightInvoice struct{}

func GetFactory(vertical string) AbstractFactory{
  var factory AbstractFactory
  switch vertical{
  case "flight":
    factory = FlightFactory{}
  case "hotel":
    factory = HotelFactory{}
  }

  return factory
}
```

### Singleton

Sometimes you may come accross a need to restrict the number of objects of a specific
time in the system. Singleton is the design pattern that restricts the creaiton
of objects to a single one. This might be useful, for example, when you want a single
coordinator object across in multiple places of the code.

```go

type MyClass struct{
  attrib string
}

func (c *MyClass) SetAttrib(val string){
  c.attrib = val
}

func (c *MyClass) GetAttrib() string{
  return c.attrib
}

var (
  once sync.Once
  instance *MyClass
)

func GetMyClass() *MyClass{
  once.Do(func(){
    instance = &MyClass{"first"}
  })

  return instance
}

```

## Structural Design Patterns
