# Introduction to market microstructue 

The following are the characteristics of market quality: 

    - Liquidity: 
    - Transaction costs: Traders must effectively manage their transaction 
    costs to trade successfully. 
    
    - Informative prices: Speculatorxs must understand why and when prices
    become informative to trade successfully. Informative prices are essential
    to the wealth of an ecnonomy. 

    - Volatility: Traders care about volatility because it can have a 
    significant impact on their wealth. 

    - Trading profits: Trading is a zero-sum game in which some traders 
    win and other lose. Traders who do not expect to win should refrain 
    from trading

## Instruments and Markets 

Market microstructure examines organized trading in instruments.
Instruments include: 
        - Common stocks 
        - bonds 
        - convertible bonds 
        - warrants 
        - options 
        - future contracts 
        - forward contracts 
        - Foreign exchange contracts 
        - swaps 
        - reinsurance contracts 
        - commodities 
        - pollution credits 
        - water rights
        - and even betting contracts

A market is a place where traders gather to trade instruments. it 
may be a physical floor or an electronic system. 

- Trading is a search problem. Buyers must find sellers, and sellers must
find buyers. Every trader wants to trade at a good price. 

- Traders who want to trade large quantities may have to find many willing
traders to complete their trades. 

- Dealers and brokers help people trade. Dealer trade with their clients when 
their clients want to trade. The prices at which a dealer will buy and sell 
are the dealers bid and ask prices.

After they trade with their clients, dealers then try to trade out at profit
by selling what they have bought or by buying back what they have sold. 
In effect, clients pay dealers to take their trading problems. the dealers 
then try to solve them at a profit.

- Brokers are agents who arrange trades for their clients. They help their 
clients find traders who are willing to trade with them. They profit by 
charging commisions.

- Patient traders obtain better prices than impatient traders do because
they are willing to search longer and harder to arrange their trades at 
favorable terms. Impatient traders pay for the priviledge of trading when 
they want to trade.

- Traders who offer to trade give other people the opportunity to trade
These options sometimes are quite valuable.

- Traders who trade to accomodate other traders risk trading with, 
and losing to, well-informed speculators. 

- Speculators are traders who trade to profit from information they have 
about future prices. Well-informed speculators can predict future prices
better than other traders can. 

They then choose to buy or sell based upon which side they expect will 
be profitable. 

Exchanges and brokerages design markets to minimize the search costs of 
trading. They usually organize markets so that everyone who wants to 
trade gathers at the same place. A common gathering place helps traders
find those traders who will offer the best prices.

* Most traders want to trade in well established markets because other 
traders also trade there. (basically a network effect).

* Entrepreneurs create new markets when old markets do not adequately meet 
the needs of a significant set of traders.

* Arbittrageurs ensure that prices do not vary much accross markets. When
prices diverge, they buy in cheaper markets and sell in more expensive markets
The effect of their trading is to connect sellers in cheaper markets to buyers
in more expensive markets. 


* An exchange trading rules affect the quality of its markets. They determine 
the balance of power between informed traders and uninformed traders, between
public traders and professional traders, and between large traders and small 
traders. 

* Markets work best when they trade fungible instruments. An instrument is 
fungible if one unit (a share, a bond, a contract, etc) of the instrument 
is economically indistiguishible from all other units.

## Key Recurrent themes 

* Information asymmetries: Traders who know more about values and 
traders who know about what other traders intend to do have a 
great advantage over traders who do not. Well-informed traders profit 
at the expense of ill-informed ones.

* Options: The option to trade is valuable. People who write limit orders
give free trading options to other traders. Clever traders can extract
the value of these options. 

* Externalities: People create positive externalities when they do something
that benefits other people without compensation. People create negative 
externalities when they do something that harms other people without penalty. 

* The most important externality in market microstructure is order flow externality, Traders who offer to trade give other traders valuable options 
to trade for which the offerers are not compensated.

* The orderflow externality attracts and binds traders to markets because they 
want to benefit from free trading options. Pay

* Market structure: Market structure consists of the trading rules, the physical layout, the information presentation systems, and the information communication systems of a market. 

* Competition with free entry and exit. Traders compete in markets to make 
profits. Trading strategies that generate large profits attract traders who 
want to participate in those profits.

* Price correlations: Markets for similar instruments are closely related. They tend to have similar conditions and they often compete fiercely with 
each other for order flow

* Principal agent problems: Principal-agent problems arise when agents do what
they want to do rather than what their principals want them to do. the most important principal-agent problem in market structure involves brokers and their clients.

**Brokers do not do what you want them to do, and they dont always work hard on your behalf as you would** 

* Trustworthiness and creditworthiness: People are trustworthy if they try to 
do what they say they will do. People are credit worthy if they can do what they say they will do. 

* The zero-sum game: All trades involve two or more parties. The accounting gains made by one side must equal the accounting losses suffered by the other
side. Understanding the origins of trading profits therefore requires that
we understand both sides of a trade.