# The Trading Industry 

## Who are the players? 

Traders are people who trade. They may arrange their own trades, they  may have others 
arrange trades for them, or they may arrange trades for others. 

Proprietary traders trade for their own accounts, and brokers arrange trades as agents 
for their clients. Brokers are also called agency traders, commission traders or commission 
agents. 

Traders have long position when they own something. Traders with long positions profit when 
prices rise. They try to buy low and sell high. 

Traders have short positions when the sold something that they do not own. Traders with 
short positions hope that prices will fall so that they will purchase at a lower price. 
When they repurchase they cover their positions. 

The trading industry has a buy side and a sell side. The buy side consists of traders 
who buy exchange services

* Liquidity is the ability to trade when you want to trade. Traders on the sell side sell
* liquidity to traders on the buy side 


* The Buy Side 

The buy side of the trading industry includes individuals, funds, firms, and governments
that use the markets to help solve various problems they face.

These problems typically originate outside of trading markets. for example investors 
use securities markets to solve intemporal cash flow problems: They have income 
today that they would like to have available in the future. They use markets to 
buy stocks and bonds to move their income from present to the future. 

Many buy side institutions are pension funds, mutual funds, trust endownments 
, and foundations that invest money. These institutions are known collectively 
as investment sponsors.

* The Sell-Side

The sell side of the trading industry includes dealers and brokers who provide 
exchange services to the buy side. Both types of traders help buy side 
traders trade when they want to trade.

Dealers accomodate trades that their clients want to make by trading with them 
when the clients want to trade. Dealers profit when they buy low and sell high. 

In contrast brokers trade on behalf of their clients. Brokers arrange trades 
that their clients want to make by finding other traders who will trade with 
their clients. Brokers profit when their clients pay them commissions for arranging
trades with other traders

### Trade Facilitators 

* Exchanges 

Exchanges provide forums where traders meet to arrange trades. Exchange traders
may include dealers, brokers and buy side traders. Only members can trade 
at most exchanges. Non member trade by asking member brokers to trade for them.

Other exchanges have order-driven trading systems that arrange trades by matching
buy and sell orders according to a set of rules. These exchanges may use computers, 
clerks, or their member traders to process orders. Order-driven exchanges are 
essentially brokerages because they arrange trades for their clients. 

* Clearing and settement Agents, Depositories, and Custodians 

Several agencies facilitate trading by helping traders settle the trades they
have arranged. They also prevent probmlems that can arise when some traders 
are not credit worthy or trust worthy 

** Clearing Agents 

To settle trades  buyers and sellers must compare their records. In most 
markets, traders submit their records to a common clearing agent to 
facilitate these comparisons. The clearing agent matches the buyer and 
the seller records and confirms that both traders agreed to the same 
terms.

A trade clears if the buyer and the seller both report that they traded
with each other, and their reported terms of the trade are identical

* Settlement Agents  

Settlement agents help traders settle their trades. They receive cash from buyers and 
securities from sellers. When both sides have performed, the settlement agent gives 
the cash to the seller and the securities to the buyer. 

* Clearinghouses 

Many futures, options, and swaps markets have clearinghouses associated with them. 
The clearinghouses clear and settle all trades in these derivatives

* The Brazilian Straddle 

A trader has a straddle when he holds positions in two different types 
of instruments. The risks in the two instruments often offset each other
so that the combined position is less risky than either positions 
held alone 

Technically bankrupt traders present a special problem to the firms 
that guarantee their trades. When traders know that they are technically 
bankrupt, they have nothing to loose by massively increasing their positions

A brazilian straddle consists of a large market position held against a 
one way  airline ticket to brazil in the breast pocket. If the market 
position proves profitable, the trader sells the ticket and comes back 
to trade tomorrow.

Clearing members must carefully monitor the traders who clear through them 
to ensure that their customers do not try to play the Brazilian straddle. 
To avoid that problem they require traders to report their positions 
many times during the day. 

* Depository and Custodians 

Depositories and Custodians hold cash and securities on behalf of their clients. 
They help settle trades by quickly delivering cash and security certificates
when properly instructed - to settlement agents.

### Trading Instruments 

The securities, contracts, commodities, and currencies that traders trade are collectively 
known as trading instruments. Trading instruments vary by type. They include real assets, 
financial assets, derivative contracts, insurance contracts, and gambling contracts. 

Financial instruments include financial assets, derivative contracts, and insurance contracts.

Real Assets: Spot commodities, Intelectual properties, Real estate, Pollution emission rights. 
Creators: Farmers, manufacturers, Inventors and artists, builders, Governments 

Financial Assets: Stock and warrants, Bonds, Trust units, Currencies
Creators: Corporate issuers, governementms, Trusgt, Government, Banks 

Derivative contracts: Future COntracts, Forward Contracts, Options, Swaps   
Creators: Sellers 

Insurance Contracts: Insurance policies, Reinsurance contract 
Creators: corporations 


* Real Assets 

Real assets include physical comodities, real estate, machines, patent, and 
other intellectual properties. Real assets also include pollution credits
which are rights to emit a specified quantity of a given type of pollution


The real assets that trade in the most liquid markets are industrial and 
precious metals, agricultural commodities, fuels and pollution credits
These instruments are usually quite fungible. 

* Financial assets: 

These are instruments that represent ownership of real assets and 
the cash flows they produce. Stocks and bonds are financial assets 
because they represent ownership of the assets of a corporation.
Stockholders own the assets of a corporation if the corporation 
defaults on its creditors and becomes bankrupt. 



## Where are the Trading Markets 


- Stocks: represent less wealth than the widespread attention given to them 
by the media would suggest 

- Trading Volume depends in part on the number of available instruments. Markets 
with a great number of different instruments are often quite illiquid. 

- Exchanges everywhere have been consolidating

### The Magnitude of Trading 

Stocks represent only 20% of the wealth of the entire american economy (circa 2003) 
Most of the wealth is in real estate, which rarely trades, and in various types 
of bonds. Derivative contracts represent no wealth because they are all in 
zero net supply and do not represent ownership of real assets. 

The major national exchanges in the United states lists about 8500 stocks, 
of which only a fraction trade actively.

The most important world currencies trade in extremely liquid markets. 
Volumes are high because international trade and cross-border capital 
transactions generally require currency conversions.

Real estate trades in brokered markets because every parcel is unique. 
The difficulties that buyers and sellers have finding each other 
make the real estate market the least liquid of the markets we 
have discussed.

### Stock market 

Corporations apply to exchanges to list their stocks. Exchanges  
generally list all companies that meet their listing standards 
and pay their listing fees. All but the smallest publicly 
traded stocks are listed for trading at one or more markets. 

The listing standard of an exchange generally require that the 
listed companies meet specified minimum standards for capital value, 
number of shareholders, and financial strength. Most exchanges 
also require listed companies to report their accounts regularly 
according to generally accepted accounting practices (GAAP). Some 
exchanges also regulate the control structure of the listed companies

* The exchange where a corporate stock issue is primarily listed is its 
primary listing market. The main primary listing markets in the USA are 
the NYSE, American Stock Exchange, and the Nasdaq Stock market. 

The primary listing markets in the USA are the New York Stock exchange 
The American Stock exchange, and the Nasdaq stock market. 



* Important: In china Domestic traders who wish to trade at the exchange must 
deposit funds with their brokers before trading. Since all money and  securities
are on depowsit before the Exchange arranges any trade, the broker can  refuse 
to accept orders that would produce trades which traders cannot settle immediately. 

### Futures Markets 

Most futures exchanges have their own clearinghouses. Exchanges therefore do not 
compete to trade the same contracts. Instead, each exchange and its associated 
clearing house try to create contracts that will attract traders. Most 
exchanges have large research and marketing department that design contracts 
they hnope will attract traders. 

Futures exchanges generally trade several contracts hat vary by expiration date for 
each commodity that they trade. Most commodities have at least four delivery months. 


### Corporate and Municipal BOnd Markets 

Throughut the world, most corporate and municipal bonds trade ohe counter 
in investment banks or commercial banks. Some stock exchanges list corporate 
bonds, but exchange bond trading volues are generally trivial. 

### Treasury Markets 

Most national treasuries conduct public auctions at wich they issue their bill, notes, and bonds. Some smaller nations, however, use underwriters to issue their securities. 


### Regulators: 

Most countries divide the responssibility for regulating margkets among many agencies. 
Legislature enact laws that direcly regulate markets. They generally  delegate 
enforcment of these laws to various public and prviate regulatory agencies.

### SUmmary 

The trading industry consists of traders who trade instruments in regulated markets. 
In subsequent chapter, we will increasingly examin why the trading industry is 
organized as is.  

### Some POints to Remember 

- The buy side buys liquidity services. The sell side provides them. 
- Dealers trade for their own account. Brokers trade for others 
- Stocks get more attention than their values would indicate 
- Many markets compete for order flow 
- Exchanges often compete with brokerages to arrange trades 
- Legislatures, regulatory agencies, and SROs regulate the markets. Legislatures provide the regulatory framework, the SROs provide the details and governmental regulatory agencies provide oversight. 
- Private regulators try to create respected standards