# Orders And Order properties 

Orders are trade instructions. They specify what traders want to trade, whether 
to buy or sell, how much, when and how to trade, and most important on what terms. 
Traders issue orders when they cannot personally negotiate their trades. 

Orders are the fundamental building blocks of trading strategies. To trade 
effectively, you must specify exctly what you want. Your order submission 
strategy is the most important determinant of your success as a trader. 

The proper order used at the right time can make the difference between a good trade, and 
a costly trade, and no trade at all. 

Many markets arrange all their trades by using a set of rules to match buy and sell 
orders that traders submit to them. 

Understanding orders will also allow you to see where the liquidity comes from. Liquidity 
is the ability to trade when you want to trade. Some orders offer liquidity by presenting 
other traders with trading opportunities.  

Other orders take liquidity by seizing thos opportunities. Trader decisions to offer or 
take liquidity therefore affect market QUALITY. 

Although order instructions have the same meanings in all markets their properties differ according to the type of market to which traders submit them. 

## What Are Orders and why people use them 

Orders are instructions that traders give to the brokers and exchanges which 
arrange their trades. The instruction explain how they want their trades to 
be arranged. 

An order always specifies which instrument (or instruments) to trade, how 
much to trade, and whether to buy or sell. An order may also incldue 
conditions that a trade must satisfy. 

The most common conditions limit the prices that the trader will accept. 
Other conditions may specify for how long the order is valid, when the 
order can be executed, whether it is okay to partially fill the order, 
where to present the order and how to search for the other side.

Orders are necessary because most traders do not personally arrange their trades.
Traders who arrange their own trades are *typically dealers, they do not use orders* 


For many small traders , it is not economical to continiously monitor the market. 
These traders use orders to represent their intereset when they are not paying 
close attention to the market. 

Traders who arrange their own trades have an advantage over traders who use 
orders to express their intentions. The former can respond to market conditions 
as they change. The latter must anticipate such changes and write contigencies 
into their orders to deal with them. 

In general, traders who can respond most quickly to changes in the market 
conditions have an advantage over slower traders. Traders who submit and 
cancel order manually are slower than traders who use computers to 
monitor and adjust their orders. Where speed is of essence, floor traders 
and computerized traders are the most sucessfull traders.  

Clear and efficient communication is essential when trading in fast markets. 
Brokers must understand exactly what traders want. Otherwise, extremelya

## Some Important Terms 

Traders indicated that they are willing to buy or sell by making bids and 
offers. Traders quote their bids and offers when they arrange their own trades. 
Otherwise, they use orders to convey their bids and offers to the brokers or 
automated trading systems that arrange their trades. 

Bids and offers usually include information about the prices and quantities that 
traders will accept. Traders call these prices bid and offer prices. they also 
use the terms bidding, price, offering price, asking price, or simply bid ans ask. 

Prices are firm when traders can demand to trade at those prices. Prices are 
soft if the traders who offer them can revise them before trading. 

The Highest bid price in a market is the best bid. THe lowest offer price is 
the best offer (or equivalently the best ask). Traders also call them the market 
bid and the market offer (or market ask) because they are the best prices 
available in the market. 

A market quotation reports the best bid and the best offer in a market. A market 
quotation is often called the BBO, which is acronym for Best Bid Offers

An Order offers liquidity, or equivalently supplies liquidity, if it gives other 
traders an opportunity to trade. For example, suppose Joe issues an order to 
buy 100 shares of IBM for

BOth buyers and sellers can offer liquidity. Buyers offer liquidity when their bids give 
other traders opportunities to sell. Sellers offer liquidity when their offer give 
other traders opportunities to buy. 

The dual use of the word "offer" may seem confusing. It may refer to an offer of an 
item for sale or to ann offer of liquidity. If you think of liquidity (the ability to
trade when you want to trade) as a service that you can buy or sell, the use of the 
word offer makes sense. 

Dealers make money by selling liquidity to their clients. 

Standing orders are open offers to trade. Joe's order will stand until some one sells 
to Joe at 100 dollars or less, the order expires at the end of the day, or Joe cancels it.
Standing orders are also called open orders. Since standing orders allow other traders to 
trade when they want to trade, traders offer liquidity when they have orders outstanding. 

Traders who want to trade quickly demand liquidity. Traders take liquidity when they 
accept offers.

A market is liquid when traders can trade without significant adverse effect on price. Markets
with many standing limit orders and small bid/ask spreads are usually quite liquid.

## Market Orders 

A market order is an instruction to trade at the best price currently available in the 
market. Market orders usually fill quickly, but sometimes at inferior prices. 
Impatient traders and traders who want to be certain that they will trade use 
m arket orders to demand liquidity. 

The execution of a market order depends on it size and on the liquidity currently avaiable 
in the market. 

Small market orders usually fill immediately with littel or no effect on prices. A small 
market buy order will typically trade at the best (lowest) asking price, and small 
market sell order will typically trade at the best (highest) bid price.

### Market Orders pay the spread 

Market order traders pay the bid/ask spread. 
The spread actually half of the spread, is the price traders pay for immediacy when 
using market orders. 


### Price Improvement 

In markets where traders negotiate prices, market orders may sometimes trade at 
better prices than the market bid and offer. Such orders receive price improvment. 
Price imporvement takes place when a trader is willing to step in front of the 
current best price to offer a better price to the incoming market order.

*This often happens when the spread is wide and the incoming market is small. 
Price improvement lowers the cost of liquidity.

### Market Impact 

Large market orders are more difficult to execute than small ones. Traders willing to 
take the other side of a very large trade are often hard to find. They may not 
be interested in the instrument, or they may be affraid to trade with someone who may 
be well informed about the value of the instrument. 

To attract traders, large impatient traders often move prices. Large buyers bid prices 
up to encourage sellers to sell to them. Large sellers offer prices down to encourage 
buyers to buy from them. The premiums that large buyers pay, and the discount 
that large seller offer, are price concessions.  

* When traders move prices to fill their orders, the have market impact. (Market impact is 
* also known as price impact) Since market impact increases with order size, it generally 
* is the most significant cost of trading large orders. 

Traders who submit large marekt orders often pay more than half the bid/ask spread for 
liquidity. 


### Execution price Uncertainty 

The prices at which market orders trade depend on current market conditions. 
Since market conditions can change quickly, traders who use market orders risk 
trading at worse prices than they expect