## Market Structures 

The trading rules and the trading systems used by a market define its market structure. 
They determine who can trade; what can they trade, and when, where, and how they trade. 

They also determine what information traders can see about orders, quotations, and trades 
when they can see it; who can see it. 

Market Structure is extremely important because it determines what people can know 
and do in a market. Since power comes from knowledge and the ability to act on it; 
market structure helps determine power relations among various types of traders. 
These relationships affect who will trade profitably. 

## Overview 

Trading takes place in trading sessions. The two types of trading sessions are 
continious trading sessions and call market sessions. In continious trading,
traders can attempt to arange their trades whenever the market is open. 
In call markets, all trades take place only when the market is called. 

## Execution systems 

Every market has procedures for matching buyers to sellers. These procedures defined the 
execution system of the market.  


### Quote Driven markets 

In pure quote-driven markets, dealers participate in every trade. Anyone who 
wants to trade must trade with a dealer. Either traders negotiate with the dealer 
themselves, or their brokers, acting as their agents, negotiate with the dealers. 

The dealers frequently trade among themselfves, but public traders cannot trade with 
each other. 


In some dealer markets, traders can trade with each other without the direct intervention 
of a dealer. Althought these are not pure quote-driven markets; they are still known 
as quote-driven dealer markets because dealers supply most of the liquidity and arrange 
all the trades. The Nasdaq Stock Market is an example of a quote driven market in which 
dealers often brokers trade among public traders. 

In most dealer markets, dealers and their customers choose each other when they want 
to trade. The customers or their brokers acting as their agents choose dealers who 
offer good prices and good service.

The dealers trade with only traders they believe are trustworthy and creditworthy. Traders 
who do not have credit relationships with dealers trade through brokers who guarantee 
that they will settle their trades

#### Bookies are dealers 

Most sport betting markets are quote-driven dealer markets in which bookies are dealers. 
The bookies try to maitain a balanced book with equal volumes bet on both sides. 
They profit from small differences in the payoffs that they offer each side. 
The differnce between these payoffs is the vigorish or juice. It is essentially a 
bid/ask spread


### Order-Driven Markets 

In Order-driven markets, buyers and sellers regularly trade with each other withouth 
the intermediation of dealers. These markets have trading rules that specify how they 
arrange their trades. Their order precedence rules determine which buyers trade with wich 
sellers, and their trade pricing rules detemine the trade prices. 

Most order-driven markets are auction markets. In an auction market, the trading rule 
formalize the process by which buyers seek the lowest available prices and sellers 
seek the highest available prices. 

Since order-driven markets use order precedence rules to arrange trades, traders cannot 
choose with whom they trade. They therefore often trade with traders with whom they have 
no credit relationships. To prevent settement faillures, order-driven markets have elaborate
mechanisms to ensure that all their traders are trustworthy and creditworthy. 


## Market Information Systems 

### Information Distribution Systems 

Market distribute information they collect to their members

## OrderBooks 

All, brokers, exchanges maintain order books to represent orders they cannot 
fill yet. The orderbooks may be electronic databases, files or boxes of paper order 
tickets . 
Orderbooks mostly contain standing limit orders. They may also include stop orders and 
market if touched orders with price contingencies that have not yet been met. 

Orderbooks hold extremely valuable information, They reveal the conditions under which 
traders will trade. Access to an orderbook is an important determinant of trader's profitability

Openbooks market fully display their orderbook to all traders. closed books markets do not show 
their orders.
Traders generally want to see the orderbook. Many traders however, do not want 
to see other traders to see their orders. When trading in open book markets 
these traders do not submit standing orders. They or their broker hold it until 
suitable trading opportunties present themselves. 


### Summary  

Market structures differ widely accross markets. The differences determine how the markets operate, who can supply liquidity, who knows current market conditions best, and who can 
act first.

Markets differn in most in how they arrange trades. in quote-driven markets, dealer arrange 
all trades and provide all liquidity. In order driven 


Markets also differ in where and when they trade. In call markets traders gather when the market is called, in continious markets  trade takes place whenever the market is open. 



### Some Points to remember 

- Call markets convene all traders at the same time and place 
- Continous markets arrange trades when willinjg buyers arrive and find 
waiting sellers and vice versa. 
- Dealers supply all liquidity in pure quote-driven markets. Public traders and dealers supply liquidity in order-driven markets. Public traders supply liquidity in brokered-markets
- Order markets arrange trades by applying a set of rules to a set of orders
- Brokers arraange trades by searching for willing traders in brokered markets 