# Order-Driven Markets

Order-driven markets use trading rules to arrange their trades. These markets
include oral auctions, single price auctions, continious electronic auctions,
and crossing networks.

Almost all of the important exchanges in the world are order-driven markets.
Most newly organized trading systems choose an electronic order-driven structure.
All order-driven markets use order-precedence rules to match buyers to sellers
and trade pricing rules to price the resulting trades.  

Variations in trading rules distinguish order driven markets from each other.
The trading strategies that work best in one market may work poorly in
markets with different rules. Traders therefore need to know trading rules
affect optimal trading strategies.

## Rule-Based Order-Matching Systems

Most exchanges, brokers, and all electronic communication use this scheme to
arrange trades. Rule-based order matching systems use rules to arrange
trades from the orders that traders submit to them.

If the market is a call market, the market collects the orders before the call
Immediately following the call, its trading system makes one attempt to arrange
trades. If the market is a continous trading market, its trading system attempts
to arrange the trades.

If the market is a continous market, the trading systems arrange trades as orders
arrive.

Every rule-based order-matching system uses the same sequence  of procedures when
attempting to arrange trades. They first match orders using their order precedence
rules. They then determine which matches can trade.
Trades will occur if at least on buy order offers terms acceptable to at least one seller.
Finally they price the resulting trade using their trade pricing rules

Although the trading rules vary considerably accross order-driven markets, all markets
apply them the same way.


## Order Precedence Rules

To arrange their trades, markets with order-matching systems use their order precedence
rules to separately rank all buy and sell orders in order of increasing precedence.
They match the orders with the highest precedence first.

Order precedence are hierarchical, market use their primary order precendence rules to
rank orders. if two or more orders have the same primary precedence, markets apply the
secondary precedence rules to rank them. These rules are applied at one time until all
orders are ranked by precedance.

All order-matching system use price priority as their primary precendence rule. Under
price priority, buy orders that bid the highest  prices and sell orders that bid the
lowest prices rank highest on their respective sides. Market orders always rank
highest because the prices at which they may trade is not limited.

Markets use various secondary precedence rules to rank orders that have the same price.
The most commonly used rules rank orders based on their time of submission, on their
display status and on their size. All rules-based markets must have at least
one secondary precedence rule.

- Time precedence gives order precedence according to their time of submission  
- Display precedence gives precedence to orders that are disclosed
- Size precedence varies by market. In some markets large orders have precedence over large orders; while in others the opposite holds
- When two or more orders are at a parity, they cannot be filled fully, some market allocate available size on a prorata basis

## The Matching Procedure

Order matching proceeds after the market ranks its orders. In a call market this happens
whenever the market is called. In a continious market it happpens as new orders arrive.

The market first matches the highest-ranking buy and sell orders to each others.
If they buyer will pay at least as much as the seller demands, the match will result
in a trade.  The price of the trade will depend on trade pricing rules of the market

If one order is smaller than the other, the smaller order will fill completely. The market
then will match the remainder of the larger order with the next highest-ranking order on
the opposite side of the market.

If the first two orders are of the same size, both will fill completely. The market will then
match the remainder of the larger order with the next highest-ranking order on the opposite
side of the market. If the first two orders are of the same size both will fill completely.
The market will then match the next highest ranking buy and sell orders.

This process continues until the market arrange all possible trades. Since the market
process orders ranked by decreasing price priority, the last match that result in a trade
often involves two orders that bid and offer at the same price. The next match does not
result in a trade because the buyers bid price is below the seller's offer price.


### Order matching example

Suppose that the traders in the previous example submit their orders to
a call market auction that calls at 10:30. At 10:30, the market will arrange
trades as follows:

1. The market first matches Sol's trade to sell 1 at 19.8 with Bif's order
to buy 4 at the market. This match fills Sol's order and leaves Bif with
a remainder of 3 to buy at the market. Sol can trade with Bif because  
Bif's market order has no price restriction.

2. The market then matches Bif's remainder of 3 with Sue's order to
sell at 6 at 20.0, Sue's order goes next because it has the highest
precendence on the sell side now that Sol's order is filled.
This match fills the remainder of Bif's order and leaves Sue with
a remaineder of 3 to sell at 20.0 Bif can trade with Sue because Bif's
market order has no price restrictions.

3. The market then matches Sue's remainder of 3 with Bob's order to
buy 2 for 20.1. This match fills Bob's order and leaves Sue ith
a remainder of 1 to sell at 20.0. Sue can trade with Bob because Bob
is willing to pay more than Sue demands

4. The market then matches Sue's remainder of 1 with Bea's order to
buy 3 for 20.0. This match fills the remainder of Sue's order and leaves
Bea with a remainder of 2 to buy for 20.0 Sue can trade with Bea
because Sue is offering 20.0 and Bea is bidding 20.0. The only
price at which they can trade is 20.0

The next match does not result in a trade. Bea's remainder of 2 to
buy for 20.0 cannot trade with Sam's order to sell 2 at 20.1 because
Bea will not pay as much as Sam demands. No further trades are possible.


## Trade Pricing Rules

The trade pricing rule depend on the type of market. Single price auctions
use the uniform pricing rule. Continuous two-sided auction and a few call
markets use the discriminatory pricing rule.  Crossing networks use the
derivative pricing rule.


## The Uniform Pricing Rule and Single Price Auction

Single price auctions are quite common. Most common order-driven stock
markets and most electronic future markets open their trading sessions with
a single price auctions.

These markets also use single price auction to restart trading following a
halt. Some call markets also trade using single price auctions exclusively.

In a single price auction, all trades take place at the same market-clearing
price. The last match that leads to a feasible trade determines the clearing
price.

==> If the buy and sell orders in this match specify the same trade price
that price must be the market-clearing price. Any other price would be either
too high to satisfy the buy order or too low to satisfy the sell order.

==> If the buy and sell orders in the last feasible trade specify different
prices, the buy order will bid a higher price than the sell order offers.

### Single price auction example

Suppose that the auction of the previous example is a single price auction.
The last feasible trade is between Bea and Sue. The market clearing price must
be 20.0, Bea is unwilling to buy at any higher price, and Sue is unwilling to
sell at any lower price. Sol is happy with the market clearning price because
he is willing to sell at 19.8. Bob is happy with the price because he is a
willing buyer at 20.1, We presume that Bif is happy with the price because
he submitted a market buy order. If the price is more than he is willing
to pay, he should have submitted a limit order instead of a market order.


#### Supply and Demand  

The single price auction clears at the price where supply equals demand.
The orders in the limit book determine the supply and demands schedules.

==> The supply schedule lists the total volume that sellers offer at each
price. It slopes upward because sellers, will sell more at higher prices
than at lower prices.

These scheduels allow us to determine how much the market can trade
at any given price. Since the market cannot force buyers and seller to trade
the total trading volume at a given price is the minimum of supply and
demand at that price.

At prices below the clearing price, there is excess demand:
Buyers want to buy more than sellers offer.

The supply schedule determines the total quantity traded.
Since the supply curve slopes upward, the market could trade more
volume at a higher price.

The demand schedule then determines the total quantity traded.
Since the demand curve slopes downlward, the market could trade
more volume at a lower price.

Single price auctions maximize the volume of trade by setting the
clearning price at the price where supply equals demand. At
price above the clearning price.

## The Discriminatory Pricing rule and continuous two-side auctions

Continuous rule-based order matching system use the discriminatory pricing
rule to price their trades. The rule is the same discriminatory pricing
that oral auctions use (Both are examples of two-sided auctions)

Continuous auction markets maintain an order book to keep track of standing
orders that are waiting to fill. The buy and sell orders are separately
sorted by their precedence. The highest-priced bid and the lowest
priced offer are the best bid and the best offer.

When a new order arrives, the matching system attempts to arrange
a trade between the new order and the order on the opposite side with the
highest precedence. A trade is possible only if the new order offers terms
acceptable to that order. If the new order is a buy order, the order
must indicated that the trader will pay at least the best offer price.

If it's a sell order, the order must indicate that the trader will sell
at or below the best bid. If a trade is possible, the new order is marketable.

Market orders and aggressively priced limit orders are marketable orders.

==> If the new order is not marketable, the market places it in the order
book, according to its precedence, to wait for orders to arrive on the top
opposite side. Traders who do not want their unfiled orders to stand in
the book must attach a fill-or-kill or an immediate-or-cancel instruction
to their orders.

==> If the new order is marketable, the matching system arranges a trade
by matching the new order with the highest-ranking order on the other
side of the market. If this order does not completely fill the new order,
the market then matches the remainder of the new order with the next highest
ranking order on the other side. This process continues until the new
order fills completely or until no further trades are feasible.

==> The market places any remaining size in the order book unless the
trader instructs otherwise.

==> Under the discriminatory pricing rule, the limit price of the standing
order determines the price for each trade. If the market matches a large
incoming order with several standing limit orders place at different prices,
trades will take place at the various limit order prices.


#### Continuous Trading Example


Suppose that traders submit the same set of orders used in the single price
auction example to a continuous two-sided auction market.

1. At 10:01, Bea submits the first order. The market cannot match it
with any other order because no standing order are in the book. The
market places Bea's order to Buy 3 limit 20.0 in the book.  The
market quote is now 20.0 bid for 3, no offer

2. At 10:05, Sam submits the second order, to sell 2 limit 20.1 Sam
cannot trade with Bea because Bea will not pay what Sam demands.
The market places Sam's order in the book. The market quote is now
20.0 bid for 3, 2 offered at 20.1 In some electronic screens, the quote
would appear as "20.0-20.1 3x2". Traders read this as "20 to a dime,
3 by 2" or "20 bid for 3, 2 offered at a dime".

3. At 10:08, Ben submits the next order, to buy 2 limit 20.0, This order
is at the same price as Bea's buy order. The market places it in the
book behind Bea's order because Bea has time precedence. The market
quote is now 20.0 bid for 5, 2 offered at 20.1

Order Book After First Three Orders

------------------------------------------------------------------
    Sellers                                     BUYERS
--------------                                --------------------
TRADER      Size        ORDER Price           SIZE            TRADER
---------------------------------------------------------------------
                          20.0                  2               Ben
                          20.0                  3               Bea
Samp         2            20.1                    
---------------------------------------------------------------------
The market is 20.0-20.1 5x2

4. At 10:09, Sol submits The next order, to sell 1 at 19.8, Sol's order is
marketable because it can trade upon submission. The market matches Sol's order
with Bea's buy order, which has the highest precedence on the buy side.
Sol's order fills, and Bea's order leaves a remainder of 2. The trade price
will be 20.0, the price of Bea's order leaves a remainder of 2. The
trade price will be 20.0, the price of Bea's standing limit order.
Note that Sol sells for 20.0, although he would have been willing to accept
as little as 19.8. The market quote is now 20.0 bid for 4, 2 offered at 20.1


Order Book After Four Orders

------------------------------------------------------------------
    Sellers                                     BUYERS
--------------                                --------------------
TRADER      Size        ORDER Price           SIZE            TRADER
---------------------------------------------------------------------
                          20.0                  2               Ben
                          20.0                  2               Bea
Samp         2            20.1                    
---------------------------------------------------------------------
The market is 20.0-20.1 4x2

5. At 10:10, Stu submits the next order, to sell 5 limit 20.2. Stu's order
is less aggressively priced than Sam's sell order. The market places it
in the book behind Sam's order. The market quote is still 20.0 bid
for 4, 2 offered at 20.1

Order Book After Five Orders

------------------------------------------------------------------
    Sellers                                     BUYERS
--------------                                --------------------
TRADER      Size        ORDER Price           SIZE            TRADER
---------------------------------------------------------------------
                          20.0                  2               Ben
                          20.0                  3               Bea
Sam         2             20.1
Stu         5             20.2                    
---------------------------------------------------------------------
The market is 20.0-20.1 x 2

6. At 10:15, Bif submits the next order, to buy 4 at the market. The
market first matches the order with Sam's sell order. This match fills
Sam's order and leaves Bif with a remainder of 2. The trade price will
be 20.1, the price of Sam's standing limit order. The market then
matches the remainder of Bif's order with Stu, leaving Stu with a
remainder of 3. The price of this second trade will be 20.2, the price
of Stu's standing limit order. The market quote is now 20.0 bid for
4, 3 offered at 20.2

Bif benefits from discriminatory pricing. The average price of the two trdes
is 20.15. Had the market used the uniform pricing rule, Bif would have had
to pay the higher price of 20.2 for both trades

Order Book After Six Orders
------------------------------------------------------------------
    Sellers                                     BUYERS
--------------                                --------------------
TRADER      Size        ORDER Price           SIZE            TRADER
---------------------------------------------------------------------
                          20.0                  2               Ben
                          20.0                  3               Bea
Stu         3             20.2                    
---------------------------------------------------------------------
The market is 20.0-20.2 4 x 3


7. At 10:18, Bob submits the next order, to buy 2 for 20.1. The order
cannot trade, but it does improve the buy side of the market. The market
quote is now 20.1 bid for 2, 3 offered at 20.2

Order Book after Seven orders

------------------------------------------------------------------
    Sellers                                     BUYERS
--------------                                --------------------
TRADER      Size        ORDER Price           SIZE            TRADER
---------------------------------------------------------------------
                          20.0                  2               Ben
                          20.0                  2               Bea
                          20.1                  2               Bob
Stu         3             20.2                    
---------------------------------------------------------------------
The market is 20.1-20.2 2x3


8. At 10:20, Sue submits the next order, to sell 6 at 20.0. The order
trades 2 with Bob at 20.1, 2 with Bea at 20.0, and 2 with ben at 20.0  
Sue benefits from the discriminatory pricing rule because her average
sale price of 20.033 is slightly higher than the sale price of 20 implied
by the uniform pricing rule. The market now has no bid and has 3 offered
at 20.2

Order Book After Eight Orders

------------------------------------------------------------------
    Sellers                                     BUYERS
--------------                                --------------------
TRADER      Size        ORDER Price           SIZE            TRADER
---------------------------------------------------------------------
Stu           3             20.2                  
---------------------------------------------------------------------
The market is 0-20.2 0x3

9. At 10:29, Bud submits the last order to buy, 7 for 19.8 It cannot
be filled, so the market places it in the book. The market is now
19.8 bid for 7, 3 offered at 20.2

Order Book after Nine Orders

------------------------------------------------------------------
    Sellers                                     BUYERS
--------------                                --------------------
TRADER      Size        ORDER Price           SIZE            TRADER
---------------------------------------------------------------------
                            19.8                7               Bud
Stu           3             20.2                  
---------------------------------------------------------------------
The market has now processed all the example orders from previous tables


Heres the summary of all the trades in the Contious auctjion Example


---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Time        SELLER            BUYER           PRICE               QUANTITY |
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
10:09       Sol               Bea             20.0                  1

10:15       Sam               Bif             20.1                  2

10:15       Stu               Bif             20.2                  2

10:20       Sue               Bob             20.1                  2

10:20       Sue               Bea             20.0                  2

10:20       Sue               Ben             20.0                  2

                                              TOTAL:                11
---------------------------------------------------------------------------


## Discriminatory Versus Uniform Pricing Rules

For a given set of standing orders, large impatient traders prefer the
discriminatory pricing rule to the uniform pricing rule. The discriminatory
pricing rule allows them to trade the first parts of their orders at better
prices than the last parts.

Under the uniform pricing rule, their entire orders would trade at the same
price. That price would be the worst price they would receive under
the discriminatory rule.

==> Large impatient traders therefore trade at more favorable terms when
they can discriminate among the traders who offer them liquidity.

==> For a given set of orders, standing limit order traders prefer the uniform
pricing rule. They do not want large traders to discriminate among them.
They would rather that all traders receive the same price when filling a
large order.

==> Limit order traders tend to issue more aggressively priced orders when
trading under the uniform pricing rule, than under the discriminatory
pricing rule. When choosing a limit price, traders consider both the
probability that their orders will trade and the prices they will receive
if their orders trade.

==> Under both pricing rules, the order limit price determines its
precedence, and therefore its probability of trading.  

==> The two rules have a different effect on trade price. Under the uniform
pricing rule, the limit price rarely determines the trade price unles the order
is very large relative to the other orders in the auction.

==> Limit orders often trade at better prices, especially when they
trade with large orders. Traders therefore are more aggressive when
trading under the uniform pricing therefore are smaller than
they would be if traders issued the same orders under either rule.

==> The benefits from price discrimination that large traders
actually obtain relative to uniform pricing therefore are smaller than
they would be if traders issued the same orders under either rule.

==> Continuous markets cannot enforce uniform pricing, however,
large traders who want to price discriminate can circumvent the uniform
rule by breaking up their orders and submitting them as a sequence of smaller
orders. The first parts will receive the best prices and the last
parts  will receive inferior prices. They will thus obtain discriminatory
pricing for their full orders, even though the trade pricing rule
calls for uniform pricing.

===> Under the discriminatory pricing rule, the market splits large orders
Under the uniform pricing rule, traders would split their orders before
submitting them.

==> To effectively switch to a uniform pricing rule, continuous trading markets
must stop trading. Some continous markets have trading halt rules to achieve
this purpose. These markets halt trading if large order imbalance would cause
the price to move too far or too quicly (Their rules specify the conditions
  that stop trading). They resume trading after some time with a single price
  auction. The trading halt therefore represents a transition from the
discriminatory pricing rule to the uniform pricing rule.


===> Trading halts may also decrease volatility by alerting traders to unusual
demands for liquidity. If traders step in to supply liquidity, prices may
not change as much as they would have changed if the market immediately
processed the orders that caused the imbalance.


### Continous Markets Vs Call Markets


Call markets focus the attention of all traders on the same instrument at the
same time. The common focus makes it easier for buyers and sellers to find
each other. When traders can easily find each other, the total trader
surplus should be high.

Single price auction maximizes the gains from trading. For a given order
flow, no other method of arranging trades can produce a higher total trader
surplus than that produced in a single price auction.

Although the continuous auction has a lower surplus (cfr Book), they allow
traders to trade when they want to trade.


## The Derivative Pricing Rule And Crossing Network  

Crossing network are the only order-driven markets that are not auction
markets. In a crossing network, all trades take place at prices determined
elsewhere. Crossing networks obtain their crossing prices from other markets
that trade the same instruments. Since the price are derived elsewhere,
crossing networks use derivative pricing rules.


## Some points to remember

- Limit order traders favor the uniform pricing rule
- Large market order traders prefer the discriminatory pricing rule
- Price priority  is self reinforcing, but secondary precendence rules are not
- Secondary precedence rules require a large minimum price increment to
be economically significant
- Single price auctions maximize trader surplus
- Continuous auction generate more volume for a given order flow
- Markets that use derivative trade pricing rule are subject to price manipulation.
