# Brokers

Brokers are agent who arrange trades for their clients. Unlike
dealers who trade with their clients, brokers trade with their
client's orders.

Many brokers are also financial advisers who advise their clients
about their investments or other financial plans. They may also provide
their clients with investment information.


==> Automated order execution systems are essentially electronic brokers
Since both traditional brokers and electronic order-matching systems
both match buyers and sellers, they compete with each other.

To fully understand either system, you must understand the economics of
both trading systems.


## What do Brokers Do

Brokers arrange trades for their clients. They search for traders
who are willing to trade with their clients, they represent their
clients at exchanges

==> Brokers conduct these activities in various types of
markets, in order flow markets, brokers take orders that their
client give them and match them with orders and quotes made by other traders

==> Exchanges, dealers, or the broker themselves may operate these markets
Brokers generally search for the best price only among traders who are
willing to display their limit orders and quotes in these markets.


==> In block markets, brokers take large client orders and try to find
other traders to fill them


==> Clients use brokers to arrange their trades because brokers usually
can arrange trades at a much lower cost than their clients can

    - Brokers solve clearing and settlement problems at a lower cost
    than their clients can

    - Brokers can access exchanges and dealers that their clients cannot
    access

    - Brokers generally know bettern than their clients who might be willing
    to trade.

    - Brokers are often better negociators than their clients are.

    - Brokers can represent orders for their clients when their clients
    are unable to represent themselves.


## Clearing and Settlement among traders

The most important, but perhaps the least appreciated reason, why
traders use brokers, is clearing and settlement. Clearning and
settlement problems can arise whenever traders do not settle their
trades immediately after they negociate them.

==> Without the assistance of brokers, traders would have to check
the credit worthiness of people they trade with for every trade

==> Brokers solve clearance problems by clearning their clients trades
If a client fails to acknowledge a trade the broker must resolve the
problem with the client.

==> Brokers can also efficiently solve the settlement credit problems
because they control assets that their clients deposit with them.

When a broker, settles a trade on behalf of the client, and the client
fails to settle with the broker, the broker can liquidate assets in  
the clients account to cover the trade.

## Brokers provide access to exchanges

Traders also use brokers because can provide access to exchanges that they
cannot access themselves. Exchanges generally allow only their members
to trade. Nonmembers who want to trade must have members arrange trades for them.


### Clearning and Settlement at Exchanges

Since order-driven exchanges often arrange trades among strangers, they generally
do not allow anyone to trade who does not have an approved credit relationshipt
with the exchange clearninghouse or with a clearing member who will guarantee
settlement of their trades.

## Brokers provide access to Dealers

Many traders use brokers to access dealers that they cannot access themselves
Brokers provide this service primarily to retail clients. Retail traders
rarely trade directly with dealers because credit, clearance, and settlement
relationships are expensive to establish.

Institutional clients often trade directly with dealers. Their large and
frequent trades make the costs of establishing direct access relationships
relatively small compared to the benefits of direct access.

## Brokers are Expert Traders

Brokers generally know more about who want to trade than do their clients.
They are better negotiators than are their clients.

### Block Brokers

The most successful block brokers know who wants to trade, and who would
want to trade if they wer presented with suitable trading opportunities.
They can predict what securities will interest their clients and at what
prices their clients will be interested.

==> They use this information to arrange trades.

### Better Negotiators   

==> Traders use brokers to negotiate transactions, especially very
large ones one their behalf. Good negotiators must be careful about
the information they reveal when negotiating.

### Brokers Provide Order Exposure Management

Traders whose orders are likely to move the market significantly do not
want to widely expose their orders. Traders either will stand out of the
way until the order has its impact on the market price., or they will trade
ahead of the order to profit from its expected price impact.

The traders who are most concerned about these issues are those ho
are widely known to be well informed and are known to trade in large
size.

### Brokers Represent Limit Orders

Many traders employ brokers to represent orders that they cannot
or do not want, to represent themselves. Clients who have other things
to do besides monitoring the market ofent give limit orders and stop
orders to their brokers to tell them what they want to do if market
conditions change. The brokers then monitor the market for them.


### Summary

Brokers provide many services to their clients. They help them identify
suitable counterparts, they help them negotiate their trades, they represent
their interests when they are unable or unwilling to represent them themselves.


## The Structure Of A Brokerage Firm

==> The activities of a brokerage firm consits of front office and back office  
operations, and proprietary operations.

==> All activities the involve client contact occur in the front office. These activities primarily involve soliciting and taking orders, executing trades, and advising clients.


==> Back office operations include all activities that support the front office
operations. Back office departments clear and settle trades, maintain accounts;
produce investment researh; and create and operate various information systems.

==> Proprietary operations include the cash and risk management activities of the firm and any speculative trading that the firm conducts for its own accounts.


### Front Office operations

==> Brokers solicit order flow by advertising and by contacting prospective
clients. They also give cleints extensive investment information and
investment research to encourage them to use their brokerage services.

===> Sales brokers primarily interact with clients. They ork in the
sales and trading department of the firm. Floor brokers arrange trades
at exchanges and on their firm's trading floor.

==> Many brokerage firms employ financial analysts to produce investment
reports for their clients. The sales brokers use this information to develop
relations with their clients.

### Back Office Operations

The back ofice of a brokerage is reponsible for supporting the
trading activities of the firm and its clients.

  - Maintaining Accounts
  - Clearning and Settling Trades
  - Providing the information systems that the firm uses to transmit market
  data, quotes, orders, and confirmation to employees, clients, dealers,
  exchanges, other brokers, clearning agents, settlement agents and custodiants.

  - Ensuring that the firm extends credit only to good credit risks.
  - Ensuring that the firm and its clients comply with all regulations to
  which they are subject.

==> Brokerage firms often place these activities under the supervision of a chief information officer, who oversees all information systems.


#### Accounting Systems

Brokerage firms now universally use computerized accounting systmes to kee
track of their accounts and to clear and settle their trades.

#### Coroporate Reorganizations

Clients hold their securities in the street name when they allow their brokers
or their depositories to hold them on their behalf. Traders often hold their
securiteis

==> Brokers who hold securities in the street name assume many responsibilities.
They must collect dividens and interest payments, and properly assing them
to the appropriate client account.

#### Market Data and Order-Routing Systems

Brokerage firms invest heavily in data and voice systems that allow their
brokers to communicate with their clients, with markets, with dealers and with
each other. Third party vendors now mostly provide these systems.

===> The trading software industry has developped several communications protocols that makes it easier for systems developped by different vendors
to exchange information with each other. The most important of these protocols
are the Financial Information eXchange (FIX) protocol and the Open Financial Exchange (OFE).
FIX primarlily serves institutional traders, and OFE primarily serves internet
based retail traders.

#### Credit Management

Brokerage firms often extend credit to their clients, to other brokers
and to dealers. The extend credit to clients when they allow clients who
have insufficient mony in their account to buy securities, when clients sell
securities that they do not have in their acccount, when they lend monly to clients on margin, and when they guarantee the their clients will settle Their
contracts.

==> To ensure that htey do not extend credit topoor credit risks, brokers
must carefully evalute all credit relationships in which they are exposed
to potential loss.

#### Compliance

The compliance officiers of a brokerage firm ensure that the firm and its
clients comply with all applicable regulations. The regulation may conern
margins, trading practices, and client suitability. The compliance officers
of a brokerage firm usually reside in the Compliance Department of the Margin
Department of the firm.


==> Many regulators do not permit brokers to arrange trades that are not
suitable for their clients. A trade creats an unsuitable posiiton if the
client cannot afford the potential loss of the position or cannot reasonably
appreciate the risks.

#### Proprietary Operations

The proprietary trading operations of a brokerage firm include all trading
activities tha tthe firm conducts for its house account. For pure brokers
these activities primarily include cash management and the borrowing
and lending of securities.

##### Cash Management and Stock Lending And borrowing

Brokerage firms that hold client assets generally invest the cash and often
lend the securities. The cash managers of the firm try to keep all cash
balances fully invested. Brokers usually house their cash management
operations in the Cashier's department under the supervision of the firm's
cashier.


##### Risk Management

The risk manager of the firm monitors all activities of the firm to ensure that the firm does not lose control over the risks it assumes. The risk manager  
must ensure that larg losses nver surprise the firm's managers.

The risk manager must make certain of the following:

    - The firm's management is aware of all significant financial and
    legal risks to which the firm is exposed.

    - Adequate controls are in place to prevent rogue traders from
    creating unauthorized positions.

    - The financial implications of all its proprietary posiitons are well
    recognized and understood.

    - The firm adequately understands the credit worthiness of those
    to whom it extends credit.

    - The firm does not extend too much credit to poor credit risks.

The risk manager's job is not to prevent losses. Firms often loose money because
they undertake risky activities that do not work out as they hope.
The risk manager's job is to ensure that the managers of the firm adequately
understand all possible losses and their probabilities of occurence.

The risk manager often reports directly to the CEO of the firm. The firm
usually gives the risk manager authority and power to investigate any
potential source of risk within the firm.


### Broker Profitability

Like all firms, brokerages profit when their revenues exceed their expenses
Their revenues come primarily from commissions, while their expenses are
primarily due to labor costs.

#### Revenues

Most brokers obtain their primary revenu from commissions.  
Important secondary sources may include, payments for orders,
interests on cash balances, margin interest on loans, underwritting
fees, merger and aquisition consulting fees. and security lending fees.

##### Commissions

Full service brokers charge a flat fee for account that
they advise. The fee covers all trading commissions, investment
research fees, portfolio management fees and account maintenance fees.

In the US, institutional stockbrokers typically charge a fixed price per
share traded, The average US institutional fee is 5 to 6 percent per share
traded. In other countries, institutional stock brokers base their
commissions on the value of the transaction.

##### Payments for Order Flow

Payments for order flow are payments that dealer make to brokers to obtain
orders from their clients. For many retail-based securities brokers
payments for order are very significant source of transation-based revenue.


### Order Preferencing

Order preferencing is the routing of order flow by a broker to a preferred
dealer. Most brokers preference orders based on the relations they have
with various dealers


### Dishonest Brokers & Audits  

An audit trails records the submission and disposition of every order.
A good audit trail includes detailed and unalterable information about everything that happens to each order.  

Complete audit trails also record market conditions at the times of submission
and execution of every order. Regulators use audit trails to determine
whether traders have violated trading rules.


#### Front Running

Front running occurs when a broker improperly allows one order to trade
ahead of another. The order that goes first usually profits from the price
impact of the following order.

Front runners hur the traders whose orders they front-run because they take
liquidity that the front-running traders otherwise would have taken.

==> Front running is most common when a broker holds a large order that
will likely move the market.

#### Inapropriate Order Exposure

Inapropriate order exposure occurs when a broker shows an order to another
trader for the other trader's benefit rather than for his client's benefit.
The other trader will typically act on the information, either by front
running the order or by refusing to trade with it.


#### Fraudulent Trade Assignment

Fraudulent trade assignment can occur when a broker executes orders on the
same side of the market for more than one client. Each client should get
the price at which his or her order is filled. A dishonest broker, however
may assign the best prices to his favorite clients.

#### Prearranged Trading and Kickback schemes

Prearranged trading occurs when a broker arranges a trade without properly
exposing her client's orer to other traders who might be willing to offer
better prices.

#### unauthorized trading or Churning

Brokers engage in unauthorized trading when they make trades for their clients
that their clients have not authorized. Brokers generally make these trades
to generate commissions or to manipulate prices.

Churning is most common when unsophisticated, trusting clients give
their brokers autorization to trade their accounts. To prevent churning
regulators require that brokerage know their clients and ensure that their
trading is appropriate for them. To prevent abuses, the compliance officers
at many brokerage firms monitor the turnover in client accounts to identify
clients who may be trading too often.

#### Securities Theft

In extreme cases, dishonest brokers steal funds and securities that their
clients entrust to them. Although the probability of theft is very
small in most markets, the possibility of theft explains why many clearing
and settement procedures exist.

Institutional traders prvent the theft of their assets primarily by
contracting with depositories or custodians to hold them for them.


## Summary  

Brokers help their clients arrange trades. They match orders, they  
find traders willing to trade, and they clear and settle trades. Clients
employ brokers for these tasks because brokers can do them more cheaply
than they can themselves

- Brokers and exchanges compete with each other to arrange trades

- Cash management is a significant source of profits for many brokers

- The principal-agency problem can be a significant problem in the brokerage
industry because quality of service is hard to measure.

- Soft commissions allow institutional funds to use trading commissions
to finance their expenses and therby report lower expense ratios.

- Many aspects of brokerage operations and of clearing and settlement
mechanisms reduce the potential for fraud among traders.
