## State as a Snapshot

State variables might look like regular javascript variables that you can
read and write to. However, state behaves more like a snapshot.
Setting it does not change the state variable you already have, but triggers
a re-render.

### Setting state triggers renders

You might think of your user interface as changing directly in response to
the user event like a click. in React, it works a little differently from
this mental model.

```js

import { useState } from 'react';

export default function Form(){
  const [isSent, setIsSent] = useState(false);
  const [message, setMessage ] = useState('Hi!');
  if(isSent){
    return <h1>Your message is on its way!</h1>
  }

  return (
    <form onSubmit={(e) =>{
      e.preventDefault();
      setIsSent(true);
      sendMessage(message);
    }}>
      <textarea
        placeholder="Message"
        value={message}
        onChange={e => setMessage(e.target.value)}
      />
      <button type="submit">Send</button>
    </form>
  );
}

function sendMessage(message){
  //§§
}

```

Here's what happens when you click the button:

1. The onSubmit event handler executes
2. setIsSent(true) sets isSent to true and queues a new render
3. React re-renders the component according to the new isSent value

### Rendering takes a snapshot in time

"Rendering" means that React is calling your component, which is a function.
The JSX your return from that function is like a snapshot of the UI in time
It props, event handlers and local variables where all calculated using
its state at the time of the render.

==> When React re-renders a component:

1. React calls your function again
2. Your function returns a new JSX snapshot
3. React then updates the screen to match the snapshot you've returned

Setting state only changes it for the next render.

A state variable's value never changes with a render, even if its event handler's
code is asyncrhonous.


### Recap

- Setting the state requests a new render
- React stores state outside of your component, as if on a shelf
- When you call useState, React gives you a snapshot of the state for that
render
- Variables and event handlers don't survive, re-renders. Every rnder has its
own event handlers.
- Every render (and functions inside it) will always "see" the snapshot of the
state that React gave to that render.

- You can mentally substitute state in event handlers, similarly to how you
think about the rendered JSX.
- Event handlers created in the past have the state values from the render
in which they were created.
