## Intro 

In this series I will discus design patterns in Golang, and why they are important. 

What are design patterns (software design patterns) what do they matter? 
Software design. 
Design patterns allow us to leverage knowledge learned by other developers for solving common 
occuring problems in software developmnet.
Design patterns were first introduced by Erich Gamma, Richard Helm, Ralph Johnson and John Vlissides (aka the Gang of four) in their seminal book "Design Patterns: Elements Of Reusable Oject-Oriented Software"

In these series on design patterns in Go We'll look at some key design principles, and walk trhough examples of how these patterns work.

In the world of design patterns there are three main dinstinct categories of design patterns: 
    - Creational design patterns 
    - Structural design pattern 
    - Behavioral design pattern 


Creational design patterns is a group of patterns (as the name implies) deal with object 
creation, it groups common practices for creating objects so that object creation is 
encapsulated from the users that uses the objects. and this group of patterns include: 
    - The singleton design pattern 
    - The builder design pattern 
    - The factory method 
    - The abstract factory method 
    - And the Prototype design pattern 


Structural design patterns : structural design patterns help shape applications with commonly 
used structures and relationships. the include: 

    - The composite design pattern 
    - The adapter design pattern 
    - The bridge design pattern 
    - The proxy design pattern 
    - The decorator design pattern 
    - The facade design pattern 
    - The flyweight design pattern 

The last group of patterns is the behavioral patterns: this group of patterns deal with 
object behavior, how behavior is encapsulated in an object for examples algorithms or executions
The patterns in this group include: 

    - The strategy pattern 
    - The chain of responsibility pattern 
    - The command design pattern 
    - The template design pattern 
    - The memento design pattern 
    - The interpreter design pattern 
    - The Visitor, State, Mediator and Observer design patterns

In the next series of articles we will discuss each pattern, their use cases and how 
you can implement them in a language like Golang which is not object oriented out of 
the box like C++ or Java.