## The singleton design pattern 

The singleton pattern ensures a class has only one instance and provides a global 
point of access to it.
The singleton design pattern as the name implies will provide you with a single
instance of an object and guarantees that there are no duplicate objects. 
The singleton pattern is the simplest pattern of all. It's UML diagram is just 
a single class. 
This pattern allow us to create objects only when they are needed, this avoids the 
shortcoming of having many duplicates in resource intensive applications. 

You'll use the Singleton pattern in many different situations. For example:
    - When you want to use the same connection to a database 
    - When you open a Secure Shell Connection to a server an perform few tasks, and don't want to reopen the connection for each task 
    - If you need to limit the access to some variable or space, you use a singleton as the door to this variable
    - If you need to limit the number of calls to some places, you create a singleton insgtance to make the calls in the accepted window. 


As a rule of thumb, you will consider using the singleton pattern when the following rule applies:
    - We need a single shared value, of some particular type 
    - We need to restrict object creation of some type to a single unit along the entire program.

We are going to demonstrate the use of this pattern using the analogy of a chocolate 
factory, we're going to create a Go type (struct) that implements the functionalities 
of a chocolate factory create a first we will create a module called chocolate 
factory

```go 

package chocofactory 

import (
    "fmt"
)

var cBoilerInstance *ChocolateBoiler


type ChocolateBoiler struct{
    //UniqueInstance *ChocolateFactory
    count int 
} 

// NewChocolateFactory checks whether an instance of ChocolateFactory 
// has already been initialized, if not it creates a new instance 
// otherwise it returns the existing instance. 
func NewChocolateBoiler() *ChocolateBoiler{
    if cBoilerInstance == nil{
        cBoilerInstance = new(ChocolateBoiler) 
        cBoilerInstance.count += 1
    }
    return cBoilerInstance
}

func (c *ChocolateFactory) BoilWater(){
    fmt.Println("Boiling Water")
}

func (c *ChocolateFactory) BrewCacaoNuts(){
    fmt.Println("Brewing Cacao nuts...")
}

func (c *ChocolateFactory) MixEverything(){
    fmt.Println("Mixing everything...")

}

// GetCount This function will check the number 
// of instances of the Chocolate boiler 
// Object. 
func (c *ChocolateBoiler) GetCount() int{
    return c.count 
}

func PrepareChocolate(){
    factory := new(ChocolateFactory) 
    factory.BoilWater() 
    factory.BrewCacaoNuts() 
    factory.MixEverything()

}

``` 

This is the most simplistic implementation of the singleton pattern in Go. This 
implementaiton is not thread safe, as there are scenario where concurrency is needed 
let's improve our code with concurrency in mind. 

Unlike the first implementation of the ChocolateFactory type, in this second implementation 
we will start by writting failing unittests 

To make our code trhead safe, we're simply going to use mutexes, mutexes in Go

```go 

package chocofactory 

import (
    "fmt" 
    "sync"
)

var cBoilerInstance *ChocolateBoiler
var lock  = &sync.Mutex{}

type ChocolateBoiler struct{

} 

// NewChocolateFactory checks whether an instance of ChocolateFactory 
// has already been initialized, if not it creates a new instance 
// otherwise it returns the existing instance. 
func NewChocolateBoiler() *ChocolateBoiler{
    if cBoilerInstance == nil{
        lock.Lock()
        defer lock.Unlock()
        cBoilerInstance = new(ChocolateBoiler) 
        
    }
    return cBoilerInstance
}

func (c *ChocolateFactory) BoilWater(){
    fmt.Println("Boiling Water")
}

func (c *ChocolateFactory) BrewCacaoNuts(){
    fmt.Println("Brewing Cacao nuts...")
}

func (c *ChocolateFactory) MixEverything(){
    fmt.Println("Mixing everything...")

}

// GetCount This function will check the number 
// of instances of the Chocolate boiler 
// Object. 
func (c *ChocolateBoiler) GetCount() int{
    return c.count 
}

func PrepareChocolate(){
    factory := new(ChocolateFactory) 
    factory.BoilWater() 
    factory.BrewCacaoNuts() 
    factory.MixEverything()

}

