## Pattern 3: The Factory Method And Abstract Factory Patterns

Loosely coupled object oriented designs. There is more to making objects than using the 
new operator. 

The factory method pattern defines an interface for crating an object, but lets 
subclasses decide which class to instantiate. Factory method lets a class defer 
instantiation to subclasses. 

### THe Problem with new 

When you use the new operator you are certainly instantiating a concrete class, 
tying your code to a concrete class can ma,ke it more fragile and less flexible 
when new usecases and scenarii arise. 

```go 

var duck Duck; 

if (picnic){
    duck = new MallardDuck();
} else if (hunting){
    duck = new DecoyDuck();
} else if (inBathTub){
    duck = new RubberDuck();
}

```

When we have serveral concrete classes being instantiated, and the decision of 
which to instantiate is made at runtime depending on set of conditions, the 
factory method shines in case like this, because codde like this is difficult to 
change. by coding to an interface, we can insulate ourselves from the many changes 
that might happen to a system. 

Because our code is written to an interface, it'll work with any new classes 
implementing that interface trhough polymorphism. 

Let's use an example of a pizza store to illustrate the use of the factory method 
our pizza store implements a method called orderPizza, where the client can order 
any types of pizza 

```go 

type Pizza interface{
    Prepare() Pizza 
    Bake() Pizza 
    Cut() Pizza 
    Box() Pizza
}

func (p *Pizza) prepare() Pizza{} 
func (p *Pizza) bake() Pizza{} 
func (p *Pizza) cut() Pizza{}
func (p *Pizza) box() Pizza{}

func OrderPizza() Pizza{
    pizza := Pizza{} 

    pizza.prepare(); 
    pizza.bake(); 
    pizza.cut(); 
    pizza.box(); 
    return pizza; 
}

```

Our store needs more than one type of pizza. We could modify our OrderPizza function 
to handle various pizza types like this 

```go 

func OrderPizza(pizzaType string) Pizza{
    var pizza Pizza 

    if pizzaType == "cheese"{
        pizza = new(CheesePizza);
    } else if pizzaType == "greek"{
        pizza = new(GreekPizza);
    } else if pizzaType == "pepperoni"){
        pizza = new(PepperoniPizza)
    }

    pizza.prepare()
    pizza.bake()
    pizza.cut(); 
    pizza.box(); 
    return pizza; 
}

``` 

The problem with this kind of implementation is that when the requriement to add  
more pizza types will present itself, we are always going to delve into the code and 
make changes to meet the new requirement; and goes against the "Open Closed Principle" 
An object can be opened for extension but closed for modification. we need to encapsulate 
the pizza object creation. To do that we will need a factory.

Factories handle the details of object creation. we will create a PizzaFactory object 
and the OrderPizza function will become a client of that object. Any time the Pizza store needs
to make a new pizza it just ask the pizza factory to make one. 

```go 

import "errors"
import "fmt"

const (
    Veggie = "Veggie" 
    Pepperoni = "Pepperoni"
    Clam = "Clam"
    Cheese = "Cheese"
)

type Pizza interface{}

type VeggiePizza struct{
    Pizza
}
type PepperoniPzza struct{
    Pizza
} 
type ClamPizza struct{
    Pizza
} 
type CheesePizza struct{
    Pizza
} 

type SimplePizzaFactory struct{} 

func (f *SimplePizzaFactory) CreatePizza(pizzaType string) (Pizza, error){
    switch pizzaType{
        case Veggie: 
            return new(VeggiePizza), nil 
        case Pepperoni:
            return new(PepperoniPizza), nil 
        case Clam: 
            return new(ClamPizza), nil 
        case Cheese: 
            return new(CheesePizza), nil 
        default: 
            return nil, errors.New(fmt.Sprintf("Pizza type not recognized."))
    }
    
}

``` 

The implementation above is often referred to as the simple factory method. 
But sometimes there are cases where one might need to group more complex sets of 
related objects, that's our next pattern the abstract factory. 


### Abstract Factory 

The abstract factory pattern provides an interface for creating families of related 
or dependent objects without specifying their concreate classes. 
This pattern provides a new layer of grouping to achieve bigger and more complex 
composite objects wich is used trough its interfaces. The idea behind this pattern 
is to have big factories that can be interchangeable and can grow more easily. 
This pattern eases the development work as it is more amenable to work with factories 
and abstract factories than to wait until all concrete implementations are written 
to work on a new functionality. One caveat to be added is that you cannot work with 
abstract factories from the get go unless you know that your object's inventory for 
a particula field is going to be very large and it could be easily grouped into families.
The abstract factory patterns has two main objectives: 

    - Provide a new layer of encapsulation for Factory methods that return a common interface for all factories 
    - Group common factories into a super Factory (also called a factory of factories)

To better illustrate the use cases of the abstract factory pattern, let's continue with our pizza factory example. Suppose that we want to extend our pizza baking and selling to other location 
accross a large geography, how do we make sure that the process of baking pizzas remains consistent 
accross locations and our diverse stores, well the abstract factory pattern will provides us with 
a blueprint to replicate the exact same baking process for our pizza varieties. 

