# This chapter covers 
    - The versatility of relative units 
    - How to use ems and rems, without letting them drive you mad 
    - Using the viewport-relative units 
    - An introduction to CSS variables

## Ems and rems 

Ems, the most common relative length unit are a measure used in typography, referening to a 
specified font size. In CSS, 1 em means the font size of the current element; it's exac 
value varies depending on the element you're applying it to. 

```css 

.padded{
    font-size: 16px; 
    padding: 1em; // sets padding on all sides equal to font-size
}

```

The above ruleset specifies a font size of 16px, which becomes the element's local definition 
for 1em. THen the code uses ems to specifiy the padding of the element. 
This padding has a specified value of 1em. This is multipled by the font size, producing a 
rendereed padding of 16px. This is important: Values declared using relative units are evaluated
by the browser to an absolute value, called the computed value.

YOu can define the size of an element and then scale the entire thing up or down with a single
declaration that changes the font size.

### Using ems to define the font-size 

When it comes to the font-size property, ems behave a little differently. 
ems are defined by the current elements font size. But if you declare font-size 
1.2em, what does that mean?. A font size can't equal 1.2 times itself. Instead, 
font-size ems are derived from the inherited font size. 

#### The shrinking font problem 

Ems can produce unexpected results when you use them to specify the font sizes of multiple
nested elements. To know the exact value for each element, you'll need to know its 
inherited font size, which if defined on the parent element in ems, requires you 
to know the parent's element's inherited size, and so on up the tree. 

This becomes quicly apparent when yu use ems for the font size of list and then 
nest  lists serverall levels deep.

## Using rems for font-size 

When the browser parses an HTML document, it creates a representation in memory of all the 
elements on the page. this representation is called the DOM (Document Object Model). It's a 
tree structure, where each element is represented by a node. The HTML element is 
the top-level (or root) node. Beneath are its child nodes. 

Rem is short for root em. Instead of being relative to the current element, rems are 
relative to the root element. No matter where you apply it in the document. 1.2rem has 
the same computed value: 1.2 times the font size of the root element. The following listing
establishes the root font size and then uses rems to define the font size for 
unordered lists relative to that. 

```css 

:root{
    font-size: 1em;
}

ul{
    font-size: .8rem;
}

```

In the above example, the root font size is the browser's default of 16px (an em on the root) 
element is relative to the browser's default). Unordered lists have a special font size 
of .8rem, which calculates to 12.8px, because this relative to the root, the font size 
will remain constant. 

Converting to rems will involve arithmetic, so its judicious to keep a calculator at hand. 
Putting a root font size in palce defines a rem. From that point on, working in pixels 
should be the exception not the norm. 

### Setting a sane default font size 

```css 
:root{
    font-size: 0.875em; /* 14/16 (desired px/inherited px) equals .875 */
}
``` 

Now your desired font size is applied to the whole page. You won't need to specify it 
elsewhere. You'll only need to change it in places where the design deviates 
from this such as headings. 

## Viewport-relative units 

You've learned that ems and rems are defined relative to font-size. but these aren't the 
only type of relative units. There are also viewport-relative units for defining lengths 
relative to the browser's viewport. 

The viewport is  the framed area in the browser window where the web page is visible. 
This exclueds the browser's address bar, toolbars, and status bar, if present

- vh - 1/1000th of the viewport height
- vw - 1/1000th of the viewport width 
- vmin - 1/100th of the smaller dimension, height or width 
- vmax 1/100th of the larger dimension, height, or width 


## Custom properties (aka CSS variables) 


```css

:root{
    --main-font: Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif;
}

``` 

The name must begin with two hyphens -- to distinguish it from CSS properties, 
followed by whatever name you'd like to use. 
Variables must be declared inside a declaration block.

A function called var() allows the use of variables. 

```css

:root{
    --main-font: Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif;
}

p{
    font-family: var(--main-font);
}

```
