# Mastering the box model 

cfr example in the book: 
Instead of the two columns sitting side by side, they line wrapped. Even though you specified widths of 70% and 30%, the columns took up more than 100% of all the available space. that's because of the default behavior of the box model. 

In its default mode the box model, when you set the width or height of an element, your specifiying the width or heights of its content, any padding, border, and margins are then added to that width. 

This behavior means that an element with a width of 300px, a 10x padding, and a 1 px border has rendered width of 322px (width plus left and right padding plus left and right border). 

This gets even more confusing when units are all the same.

## Adjusting the box model 

Because of the problems discussed above the default setting of the box model is not what one would typically want to use. 

Instead you'll want your specifed widths to include the padding and borders. CSS allows you to adjust the box model behavior with it's box sizeing property. 

By default box sizing is set to the value of content-box. This means that any height or width you specify only sets the size of the content box. 

You can assgin a value of border-box to the box sizing instead. That way , the height and width properties set the combined size of the content, padding and border, which is exactly what you want in this example.

Using the box-sizing: border-box, the two elements add up to an even 100% width. Their width of 70% and 30% are now inclusive of their padding, so they fit on the same line. 


## Using the universal border-box sizing 

A way to apply box-sizing for all elemùents is to use the universal selector (*), which targets all elements on the page. 

```css 

*, 
::before, 
::after{
    box-sizing: border-box;
}

```

After applying this to the page, height and width will always specify the actual height and width of an element. Padding won't change them. 


If you add third-party components with their own CSS to your page, you may see some brokend layouts for the components, especially if their CSS wasn't written with this fix in mind. Because the universal border-box fix targets every element in the component with the universal selector, correcting this can be problematic.
You would need to target every element inside the component to revert to the content-box sizing. 

You can make this easier with a slightly modified version of the fix and inheritance update

```css 

:root{
    box-sizing: border-box;
}

*, 
::before, 
::after{
    box-sizing: inherit;
}

``` 

Box sizing isn't normally an inherited property but, by using the inherit keyword, you can force it to be. 

```css 

.third-party-component{
    box-sizing: content-box;
}

```

## Addint a gutter between columns 

It's often more visually appealing to have a small gap (or gutter) between columns. You can sometimes achieve this by adding padding to one column; but in some cases, this approach doesn't work. If both columns have a background color or border, as with your example page, you'll want the gutter to appear between the two elements

percent-baszed gutter margin 

```css 

.main{
    float: left; 
    width: 70%; 
    background-color: #fff; 
    border-radius: .5em;
}

.sidebar{
    float: left; 
    width: 29%; 
    margin-left: 1%; 
    padding: 1.5rem; 
    background-color: #fff;
    border-radius: .5em;
}

``` 

This addws a gutter, but its width is based on the outer container's width, the percentage is relative to the full width of the parent. 

## Difficulties with element height 

Working with element height is different than working with element width. The border-box fixes you've made thus far still apply and can be helpful; but 
typically it's best to avoid setting explicit heights on elements.
NOrmal document flow is designed to work with a constrained width and an unlimited height. Contents fill the width of the viewport and then line wrap as necessary. Because of this, the height of a container is organically determined by its contents, not by the container itself. 

Normal document flow refers to the default layout behavior of elements on the page. Inline elements flow along with the text of the page, from left to right. line wrapping when the reach the edge of their container. Block-level elements fall on individual lines, with a line break above and below. 

### Controlling the overflow behavior 

When explicitely set an element's height, you run the risk of its content overflowing the container. This happens when the content doesn't fit the specified constraint and renders outside the parent element

You can control the exact behavior of the overflowing content with the overflow property, which support four values: 

    - visible: all content is visible, even when it overflows the container's edges 
    - hidden: Content that overflow the container's padding edge is clipped and won't be visible. 
    - scroll: Scrollbars are added to the container so the user can scroll to see the remaining content. 
    - auto: Scrollbars are added to the container only if the contents overflow.


#### FLEXBOX 

Accomplishing a two-column layout with equal-height columns can also be done with a flexbox shown in listing 3.11. Notably, a flexbox doesn't necessitate the use of an extra div wrapper. 

Favor the use of a flexbox instead of a table layout if you aren't actively supporting IE9 or older. 

By applying display:flex to the container, it becomes a flex container. It's child elements will become the same height by default. You can set width and margins on the items; even though this would add up to more than a 100%, the flexbox sorts it out. 

## Using min-height and max-height 

Two properties that can be immensely helpful are min-height and max-height. 
Instead of explicitely defining a height, you can use these properties to specify a minimum or maximum value, allowing the leemnet to size naturally withing those bounds. 


## Negative Margins 

Unlike paddinbg and border width, you can assign a negative vaule to margins. this has some peculiar uses, such as allowing elements to overlap or stretch wider than their containers.

Adding negatve left or top margins pull 
the element leftward or upward 

Adding negative right or bottom margins 
will pull the succeding elemment(s) leftward or upword (to overlap) 

When a block element doesn't have a specified width, it naturally fills the width of its container. A negative right 
margin, however can change this. As long as no width is specified, it pulls the edge of the element to the right, bringing it outside the container.

## Collapsed margins 

Gap between elements when the margin is not specified are cause byt the margin collapsing (When top and /or bottom margins are adjoining, they overlap, combining to form a single margin. This is referred to as collapsin

### Collapsing between text 

The main reason for collapsed margins has to do with the spacing of blocks of texts. Paragraphs (<p>) by default have a 1 em top margin and a 1 em bottom margin. this is applied by the user agent stylesheet. 

But when you stack two paragraphs, one after the other, their margins don't add up to a gap of 2 em. Instead they collapse, overlappping to produce only 1em of space between the two paragraphs. 

