# Flexbox 

This chapter covers: 
    - flex containers and flex items 
    - main axis and cross axis 
    - Element sizes in flexbox 
    - Element alignment in flexbox 


Flexbox formally flexible box layout is a new method for laying out elements on the page. 
It's more predictable and offers far more specific control than floats. It's also a simple 
solution to the long-standing problems of vertical centering and equal height columns. 

Flexbox introduces 12 new CSS properties, including some shorthand properties. 

## FLexbox principles 

FLexbox begins with the familiar display property. Applying "display:flex" to an element 
turns into a flex container, and its direct children turn into flex items. By default, 
flex items align side by side, left to right all in one row. The flex container fills 
the available width like a block element, but the flex items may not necessarily fill 
the width of their flex container. 

By default flex items align side by side, left to right, all in one row. The flex container 
fills the available width like a block element, but the flex items may not necessarily fill 
the width of their flex container. 

YOu can use "display: inline-flex". this creates a flex  container that behaves more like 
an inline-block element rather than a block. It flows inline with other inline eleemnts, 
but it won't automatically grow to 100% width. Flex items within it generally behave 
the same as with display:flex. Pratically speaking, you won't need to use this very often. 

A flex container assertxs control over the layout of the elements within, unlike previous 
display values (inline, inline-block, and so on) which only affect the element they're 
applied to. 

The flex items are placed along a line called the main axis, which goes from the main-start 
(left) to the main-end (right). Perpendicular to the main axis is the cross axis. 
This goes from the cross-start (top) to the cross-end (bottom). The direction 
of these axes can be changed

The concepts of (flex container, flex items and the two axes) cover a lot of what one 
needs to know about flexbox. Applying display:flex gets you pretty far before you'll 
need to pickup any of those 12 new properties. 

The flex property controls the size of the flex items along the main axis (that is the width). In listing 5.6 you'll apply 
a flex layout to the main area of the page, then you'll use the flex property to 
control the size of the columns. 

## Flex Item sizes

Flex layout allows items to size naturally without specifying the width or height

The flex property, which is applied to the flex items, gives you a number of options

Using the flex property to set column 
widths

```css 

.column-main{
    flex: 2; 
}

.column-sidebar{
    flex: 1;
}

```

Now the two columns grow to fill the space, so together they are the same width as the nav bar, with the main columns twice as wide as the sidebar. Flexbox was kind enough to take care of the math for you.

The flex property is shortahnd for three different sizing properties: flex-grow, flex-shrink, and flex-basis.

When you use only one option for the flex property you're specifying the flex-grow property leaving the other two properties to their default values (1 and 0% respectively). 

So "flex: 2" is equivalaent to "flex: 2 1 0%;" These shorthand declarations are generally preferred but you can also declare the three individually. 

```css 

.element{
    flex-grow: 2; 
    flex-shrink: 1; 
    flex-basis: 0%;
}

``` 

### Using the flex-basis property 

The flex basis defines a sort of starting ppoint of the size of an element. An initial "main size". 
The flex-basis property can be set to any value that would apply to width, including values in px, ems or percentages. Its initail value is auto, which means the browser will look to see if the element has a width declared. 

If so the brosser uses that size; if not it determines the element size naturally by the contents. This means that width will be ignored for elements that have nay 
flex basis other than auto. 

### Using flex-grow 

Once flex-basis is computed for each flex item, they (plus any margin between them) 
will add up to some width. This width may 
not necessarilly fill the width of the flex container, leaving a remainder 

The remaining space (or remainder) will be 
consumed by the flex items based on their flex-grow values, which is always specified as a non negative integer. 

If an item has a flex-grow of 0, it won't 
grow past its flex basis. If any items have
a non-zero growth factor, those items will
grow until all of the remaining space 
is used up. This means the flex items will 
fill the width of the container 

Declaring a higher flex-grow value gives 
that element more "weight"; it'll take 
larger portion of the remaininder


*TIP: favor the use of the shorthand flex property instead of individually declaring flex-grow, flex-shrink or flex-basis. Unlike most shorthand properties, these aren't set to their initial values when omitted. 

### Using flex-shrink 

The flex-shrink property follows similar principles as flex-grow. After determining 
the initial main size of the flex items, they could exceed the size available in 
the flex container. Without flex-shrink 
this would result in an overflow. 

The flex-srhink value for each item indicates whether it should shink to prevent overflow.

If an item has a flex-shrink value of 0 it 
will not shrink. Items with a value greater
than 0 will shrink if there is no overflow. An item with a high value will shink more than an item with a lower value. proportiaonal to the flex-shrink values. 

As an alternate approach to your page you could achieve two columns sizing by relying on flex-shrink. 

Using the flex property to set widths
```css 

.column-main{
    flex: 66.67%; /* Equiv to flex: 1 1 66.67%; */
}

.column-sidebar{
    flex: 33.33%; /* Equiv to flex: 1 1 33.33%; */
}


``` 

### Some practicla uses 

You can make use of the flex property in countless ways. You can define proportional 
columns using flex-grow values or flex-basis percentages as you did on your 
page. You can define fixed width columns and fluid columns that scale with the viewport. You can build a grid system using
flexbox instead of floats

## Flex direction 

Another important option in flexbox is the ability to shift direction of the axes. the flex-direction property applied to the flex container, controls this. 
Its initial value (row) causes items to flow left to right. Specifying flex-direction: column causes flex items to stack vertically (top to bottom) instead. 

Flexbox also supports row-reverse to flow items right 
to left, and column-reverse to flow items bottom to top.