# Positioning and stacking contexts

This chapter covers: 

    - The types of element positioning, fixed, relative, and absolute 
    - Building modal dialogs and dropdown menus 
    - Css triangles 
    - Understaning z-index and stacking contexts 
    - A new type of positioning: sticky 


## Fixed positioning 

Fixed positioning, is simple to understand.  
Applying position:fixed to an element lets you position the element 
arbitrarily within the viewport. This is done with four companion properties 
top, right, bottom and left. The values you assign to these properties specify how 
far the fixed element should be from each edge of the browser viewport. 

For example "top:3em;" on a fixed element means its top edge will be 3 em from the 
top of the viewport 

By setting these four values, you also implicitely define the width and theight of the element. 
For example, specifying left: 2em; right: 2em means the left edge of the element will be 
2em from the left side of the viewport, and the right edge will be 2em from the right side.

Thus, the element will be 4 em less than the total viewport width. 
Likewise with top, bottom, and the viewport height. 


### Creating a modal dialog with fixed positioning 

A dialog that will popup in front of the page content, masking it from 
view until the dialog is closed. 
Typically, you'll use a modal dialog to require the user to read something or to 
input something before continuing. 


## Absolute Positioning 

Fixed positioning lets you position an element relative to the viewport. 
This is called its containing block. The declaration left: 2em; for example, 
places the left edge of a positioning element 2em from the left edge of 
the containing block. 

Absolute positioning works the same way, except it has a different containing block. 
Instead ovf its position being based on the viewport, its position is based on 
the closest positionied ancestor element. As with a fixed element, the 
properties top, right, bottom and left place the edges of the element withing 
its containing block. 

### Absolutely positioning the close button 


```css 

.modal-close{
    position: absolute; 
    top: 0.3em; 
    right: 0.3em; 
    padding: 0.3em; 
    cursor: pointer;
}

``` 

This listing places the button 0.3 em from the top and 0.3em from the right of the 
modal-body. Typically, as in thisss example, the containing block will be the element's
parent. In cases where the parent element is not positionined, then the browser 
will look up the DOM hierarchy at the grandparent, great-grandparent, and so on until 
a positioned element is found. Which is then used as the containing block. 

## Relative Positioning 

When you first apply position:relative to an element, you won't usually 
see any visible change on the page. The relatively positioned element and 
all elements on the page around it, will remain exactly where they were. 

The top, right, bottom, and left properties, if applied will shift the element 
from its original position, but it won't change the position of any elemnts 
around it. 


## Stacking contexts and z-index 

Positionint is useful, but it's important to know the ramifications involved. WHen you remove an element from the document flow, you become responsible for all the things the document flow normally does for you. 

You need to ensure the element doesn't accidentally overflow outside the browser viewport, thus becoming hidden from the user. 

And you need to make sure it doesn't inadvertantly cover important content you need visisble. 

Eventually, you'll encounter problems with stacking. When you position multiple elements on the same page, you may run into a scenario where two different positioned elements overlap.

### Understanding the rendering process and stacking order 

As the browser parses HTML into the DOM, it also creates another tree structure called the render tree. This represents the visual appearance and position of each element. It's also responsible for determining the order in which the browser will paint elements. 

Under normal circumstances (that is before positioning is applied), this order is determined
by the order the elements appear in the HTML.

Moving the element to somewhere else in the markup tends to be harmless for fixed positioning, but this isn't a solution you can normally use for relative or absolute positioning. Relative positioning depends on the document flow, and absolute positioning depends on its positioned ancestor element. We need a way to control their stacking behavior.

the z-index property controlls the stacking behavior. 

### Manipulating stacking order with z-index. 

The z-index property can be set to any integer (positive or negative). Z refers to the depth dimension in a Cartezian X-Y-Z coordinate system. 
Elements with a high z-index appea in front of 
elements with a lower z-index.  

Elements with a negative z-index appear behind static elements. 

Using z-index is the second approach you can use to fix your page's stacking problem. This approach gives you more freedom in how you structure the HTML. 

```css 

.modal-backdrop{
    position: fixed; 
    top: 0; 
    right: 0; 
    bottom: 0; 
    left: 0; 
    background-color: rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.5);
    z-index: 1;
}

.modal-body{
    position: fixed: 
    top: 3em; 
    bottom: 3em; 
    right: 20%; 
    left: 20%; 
    padding: 2em 3em; 
    background-color: white; 
    overflwo: auto; 
    z-index: 2;   
}

```

Z-index seems straightforward, but using it introduces two gotchas. first z-index only works on positioned elements. You cannot manipulate the stacking order of static elements. Second applying a z-index to a positioned element establishes something called a stacking context.


### Understaning stacking contexts 

A stacking context consists of an element or a group of elements that are painted together by the browser. One element is the root of the stacking context, so when you add a z-index to a positioned element. that element becomes the root of a new stacking context. All of its descendant elements are then part of that stacking context. 

Stacking contexts are not to be confused with block formating contexts. the two are separate concepts. 

## Sticky positioning 

The four main positioning types (static, fixed, absolute, and relative) have been around for a long time. but there's a new type of positioning making its way into browsers: sticky positioning. 

It's sort of a hybrid between relative and fixed positioning: the element scrolss normally with the page until it reaches a specified point on the screen, at which point it will lock in place as the user continues to scroll. 

The common use-case for this is sidebar navigation. 

