# InfluxDB

## Getting Started with Data (Write Data)

InfluxDB provides many different options for ingesting or writing data, :
  - Influx user interface (UI)
  - InfluxDB HTTP API
  - Influx CLI
  - Telegraf
  - InfluxDB client libraries


## Line Protocol

All data written to InfluxDB is written using line protocol, a text-based format
that lets you provide the necessary information to write a data point to InfluxDB.

### Line Protocol elements

All data written to InfluxDB is written using line protocol, a text-based format that
lets you provide the necessary information to write a data point to influxDB.  

Each line protocol contains the following elements:
  - measurement: String that identifies the measurement to store the data in
  - tag set: comma-delimited list of key value pairs, each representing a tag
  - Tag keys and values are unquoted strings, Spaces, commas, and equal characters
  must be escaped
  - field set: Comma-delimited list key value pairs, each representing a field. Field
  keys are unquoted strings. Spaces and commas must be escaped. Field values
  can be strings (quoted), floats, integers, unsigned integers, or booleans

  - timestamp: Unix timestamp associated with the data. InfluxDB supports up to
  nano second precision. If the precision of the timestamp is not in nano seconds,
  you must specify the precision when writing the data to influxDB.

### Line protocol element parsing

- Measurement: everything before the first unescaped comma before the first whitespace
- tagset: Key-Value pairs between the first unescaped comma and the first unescaped whitespace
- field set: Key-Value pairs between the first and second unescaped whitespaces
- timestamp : integer value after the second unescapeed whitescpae
- Lines: are separated by the newline character (\n). Line protocol is whitespace sensitive

### Construct Line Protocol

With basic understanding of line protocol, you can now construct line protocol and write
data to InfluxDB, consider a use case where you collect data from sensors in your home.
Each sensor collects temperature, humidity, and carbon monoxide readings. To collect this
data use the following schema:

- Measurement: home
  - tags:
      - room : Living Room or Kitchen
  - fields:
      - temp: temperature in °C (float)
      - hum: percent humidity (float)
      - co: carbon monoxide in parts per million (integer)
  - timestamp: Unix timestamp in second precision



## Query Data with InfluxQL

InfluxQL is a SQL-like query language similar to most SQL languages, but specifically
designed to query time series data from influxDB 0.X and 1.x

When querying InfluxDB with influxql, the most basic query includes the following statements
and clauses:
  - SELECT: Specify which fields and tags to query
  - FROM: specify the measurment to query. Use the measureement name or a fully-qualified
  measurement name which includes the database and retention policy
  - WHERE: (Optional) Filter data based on fields, tags, and time

The following influxQL query returns the co, hum, and temp fields and the room
tag stored in the home measurement with timestamps between 2022-01-01508:00:00Z and
2022-01-01T20:00:00Z

```sql

SELECT co, hum, temp, room FROM "get-started" .autogen.home WHERE time >= '2022-01-01T08:00Z'
AND time <= '2022-01-01T20:00:00Z'

```

## Query data with Flux

Flux is a functional scripting language that lets you query and process data from InfluxDB and
other data sources.

### Flux query basics

When querying InfluxDB with flux, there are three primary functions you use:

  - from(): Queries data from an influxDB bucket
  - range(): Filters data based on time bounds. Flux requires "bounded" queries
  limited to a specific time range
  - filter(): Filters data based on column values. Each row is represented by r and each
  column is represented by a property of r


```flux

r = {
  _time : 2020-01-01T00:00:00Z,
  _measurement: "home",
  room: "Kitchen",
  _field: "temp",
  _value: 21.0,
}

```

To filter rows, use predicate expressions to evaluate the values of columns. Given
the row record above

```js  

(r) => r._measurement == "home"
(r) => r.room == "Kitchen"  
(r) => r._field == "co"
(r) => r._field == "co" or r._field == "temp"
(r) => r._value <= 20.0 // returns false

```

#### Pipe-forward operator

Flux uses the pipe-forward operator (|>) to pipe the output of one function as input
the next function as input

#### Query the example data

The following fluw query returns the co, hum, and temp fields stored in the home measurement
with timestamps between 2022-01-01T08:00:00Z and 2022-01-01T20:00:01Z

```js

from(bucket : "get-started")
  |> range(start: 2022-01-01T08:00:00Z, stop: 2002-01-01T20:00:01Z)
  |> filter(fn: (r) => r._measurement == "home")
  |> filter(fn: (r) => r._field == "co" or r._field == "hum" or r._field == "temp")
```
