# Interprocess Communication in A microservice Architecture 

Whithin a monolithic application modules invoke one another via language 
level method or function calls. microservices interact with each other 
using RPC since they are implemented as a set of separate services.

There's no shortage of RPC mechanisms to choose from, the most common IPC 
mechanism used for microservice architectures is REST.

## Overview of IPC in a microservice architecture 

Services can use either syncrhonous request/response based communication mechanisms such as HTTP based REST or gRPC. Alternatively they can use 
asynchronous, message-based communication mechanisms such as AMPQ or STOMP. 

There are also a variety of different message formats such as JSON or XML.
Alternatively, they could use a more efficient binary format such as Avro 
or Protocl Buffers.

### Interaction styles 

The choice of the interaction style impacts the availability of your application. 
There are a variety of client-service interaction styles, they can be 
categorized in two dimensions. 

* The first dimension is whether the interaction is one-to-one or many-to-many: 
    - One-to-One: Each client request is processed by exactly one service 
    - One-to-Many: Each request is processed by multiple services.

* The second dimension is whether the interaction is synchronous or asyncrhonous: 
    - Syncronous: The client expects a timely response from the service and 
    might even block while it waits. 
    - Asyncrhonous: The client doesn't block, and the response, if any isn't 
    necesserily sent immediately


The following are the different types of one-to-one interactions:

    - Request/response: A service client makes a request to a service and 
    waits for a response. 

    - Asynchronous request/response: A service client sends a request to a service, which replies asyncrhonously.

    - One way notifications: A service client sends a request to a service, 
    but no reply is expected or sent


The following are the different types of one-to-many interactions: 

    - Publish subscribe: A client publishes a notification message, 
    which is consumed by zero or more interested services. 

    - Publish/async responses, A client publishes a request message and then 
    waits for a certain amount of time for responses from interested services

### Defining APIs in a MS architecture 

A service API is a contract between the service and its clients. it consists
of operations, which clients can invoke, and events which are published by 
the service. An operation has a name

Regardless of which IPC mechanism you choose, it's important to precisely
define a service's API using some kind of interface definition language (IDL)

First you write the interface definition. Then you review the interface 
definition with the client developers. Only after iterating on the API 
definition you then implement the service


* The nature of the API definition depends on which IPC mechanisms you're using. For example, if you're using messaging the API consists of message 
* channels, the message types and the message format. 

* If you're using HTTP the API consists of the URL, the HTTP verbs, and the 
* requests and response formats.


### Evolving APIs 

APIs inevitably change overtime as new features are added, existing features
are changed and perhaps old features are removed


* Use semantic versioning

The semantic versioning specification is a useful guide to versioning APIs. 
[Semver](https://semver.org) 
It's a set of rules that specify how version numbers are used and incremented
Semantic versioning

    - MAJOR: When you make an incompatible change to the API. 
    - MINOR: When you make backward compatible enhancements to the API
    - PATCH: When you make a backward compatible bug fix.


### Message Formats 

    There are two main categories of message formats: 
        - Text based : (JSON & XML)
        - Binary (Protobuf & Avro)


### Communicating using the synchronous Remote procedure invocation pattern

When using an RCP mechanism, a client sends a request to a service, and 
the service processes the request and sends back a response. 

in the RPI pattern the business logic in the client invokes a proxy interface, 
implemented by an RPI proxy adapter class. The RPI proxy makes a request 
to the service. The request is handled by an RPI server adapter class, which 
invokes the service's business logic via an interface. It then sends back a reply to the RPI proxy, which returns the result to the client's business logic.


#### Using REST

Rest uses (almost) HTTP verbs. a key concept in REST is that of a resource, which typically represents a single business object such as a Customer or 
product, or a collection of business objects.

REST uses HTTP verbs to manipulate resources, which are referenced using a
URL. For example a GET request returns the representation of a resource,  
which is often in the form of an XML or JSON object, other format such as 
binary can also be used. 

A POST request creates a new resource, a PUT request updates a resource.

##### The REST maturity model 

* Level 0: Clients of a level 0 service invoke the service by making 
HTTP POST requests to its sole URL endpoint. Each request specifies 
the action to perform, the target of the action, and any parameters. 

* Level 1: A level 1 service supports the idea of resources. To perform an 
action on a resource, a client makes a POST request that specifies the action 
to perform and any parameters.

* Level 2: A level 2 service use HTTP verbs to perform actions, GET to retrieve
POST to create, PUT to update. The request query parameters and body, if any 
specify action parameters. This enables services to use web infrastructure to 
such as caching for GET requests.

* Level 3: The design of a level 3 REST service is based on the terribly named HATEOAS (Hypertext As the Engine of Application State) principle. 
The basic idea is that the representation of a resource returned by a GET 
request contains links for performing actions on that resource

##### Specifying REST APIs

One must define an API using an interface definition language (IDL). 
The most popular REST IDL is the OPEN API specification (www.openapis.org), which evolved from the swagger open source project.

The SWAGGER project is a set of tools for developping and documenting 
REST APIs. It includes tools that generate clients stubs and server 
sekeletons from an interface definition. 

##### The Challenge of FETCHING multiple resources in a single request

A common problem with REST APIs is to enable the client to retrieve. 
multiple related objects in a single request. 

For example image that a REST API would require the client to make at 
least two requests, one for the Order and another for its Consumer. 
A more complex scenario would require even more round-trips and sufer 
excessive latency.

One solution for this problem is to allow the client to retrieve related 
resources when it gets a resource. For example, a client could retrieve 
an Order and its Consumer using GET /orders/order-id-1345?expand=consumer. 
The query parameter specifies the related resources. this works in many 
scenarios but insuficient for more complex use cases.  

* Alternatives like facebook's GRAPHQL and Netflix Falcor, are becoming popular as they were designed to support efficient data fetching.


##### The Challenge of mapping operations to HTTP Verbs 

Another common REST API design problem is how to map operations you want 
to perform on a business object to an HTTP verb. A rest API should 
use PUT for updates, but there may be multiple ways to update an order 
including cancelling it, revising the order, and so on. Also an update 
might not be idempotent, which is a requrement for using PUT. One solution 
is to define a sub-resource for updating a particular aspect of a resource. 

The Order Service for example has a POST /orders/{orderId}/cancel endpoint 
for canceling orders, and a POST /orders/{oderId}/revise endpoint for 
revising orders. Another solution is to specify a verb as a URL query parameter
. neither of these solution is RestFul. 

This problem with mapping operations to HTTP verbs has led to the growing alternatives to REST, such as gRPC


##### Benefits and drawbacks of REST 

There are numerous benefits to using REST: 
    - It's sipmple and familiar
    - You can test an HTTP API from within a browser using, for ex 
    the POSTMAN plugin, or from the command line using curl
    - It directly supports request/response style commmuninication.
    - HTTP is firewall friendly 
    - It doesn't require an intermediate broker which simplifies the system's architecture 


There are some drawbacks to using REST 

    - it only support the request/response style of communication 
    - Reduced availability. Because the client and service communicate directly without an intermediary to buffer messages, they must be both running for the duration of the exchange. 

    - Clients must know the locations (URLs) of the service instance(s). 
    this problem is non trivial. Clients must use a service discovery mechanism to locate service instances.

    - Fetching multiple resources in a single request is challenging. 
    - It's sometimes difficult to map multiple update operations to HTTP verbs


#### Using gRPC 

One challenge with using the REST approach to service design is that it only 
support a limited number of verbs, it's not always straightforward to design 
a REST API that supports multiple update operations. An IPC that avoids this 
issue is gRPC, a framework for writing cross-language clients and servers. 

gRPC is a binary message based protocol, and this means, as mentioned earlier 
in the discussion, you must take an API-first approach to service design. 

You define your gRPC APIs using a Protocol Buffers-based IDL, which is Google's
language neutral mechanism for serializing structured data. You use the 
protocol buffer compiler to generate client-side stubs and server-side skeletons. ** The compiler can generate code for a variety of languages including java, C#, NodeJS and Golang ** 

Clients and servers exchange message in the Protocol buffers format using 
the HTTP/2 protocol. 

A gRPC API consists of one or more service and request/response message 
definitions. A service definition is analogous to a Java interface and 
is a collection of strongly typed methods. As well as supporting 
simple request/response RPC, gRPC supports streaming RPC. 

A server can reply with a stream of messages to the client. Alternatively
a client can send a stream of messages to the server. 

Protobuf (Protcol buffers) is an efficient, compact, binary message format. 
It's a tagged format. Each field of a protocol buffers message is numbered and 
has a type code. A message recipient can extract the fields that it needs 
and skip over the fields that it doesn't recognize. As a result gRPC enables
APIs to evolve while remaining backward compatible. 

```s 

service OrderService{
    rpc createOrder(CreateOrderRequest) returns (CreateOrderReply){} 
    rpc cancelOrder(CancelOrderRequest) returns (CancelOrderReply){} 

    rpc reviseOrder(ReviseOrderRequest) returns (ReviseOrderReply){}

}


message CreateOrderRequest{
    int64 restaurantId = 1; 
    int64 consumerId = 2; 
    repeated LineItem lineItems = 3;
}

message LineItem{
    string menuItemId = 1; 
    int32 quantity = 2;
}

message CreateOrderReply{
    int64 orderId = 1;
}

```

gRPC has several benefits: 
    - It's straightforward to design an API that has a rich set of update
    operations 
    - It has an efficient, compact IPC mechanism, especially when exchanging
    large messages.
    - Bidirectional streaming enables both RPI and messaging styles of communication. 
    - It enables interoperabilty between clients and services written in a 
    wide range of languages 


gRPC drawbacks: 

    - It takes more work for javascript based clients to consume a 
    gRPC based API than REST/Json based ones. 
    - Older firewalls might not support HTTP/2 


* gRPC is a compelling alternative to REST, but like REST it's a syncrhonous communication mechanism, so it also suffers, from the problem of partial failure. 

#### Handling Partial Failure with the Circuit-breaker pattern 

There is always an ever present risk of partial failure in a distributed 
system whenever a service makes synchronous requests to another service.
Because the client is blocked waiting for a response, the danger is that 
the failure could cascade to the client's clients and so on and cause 
an outage. 

* Pattern Circuit breaker: An RPI proxy that rejects invocations for a timeout period after the nuber of consecutive failures exceeds a specified trheshold

It's essential that you design your services to prevent partial failures from 
cascading throughout the application. There are two parts to the solution: 

        - You must use, design RPI proxies, such as OrderServiceProxy (cfr book) to handle unresponsive remote services. 
        - You need to decide how to recover from a failed remote service


##### Developing robust RPI proxies 

Whenever one service syncronously invokes another service, it should 
protect itself using the following approach [netflix](https://techblog.netflix.com/2012/02/fault-tolerance-in-high-volume.html) 

    - Network timeouts: Never block indefinetly and always use timeouts whenever waiting for a response. Using timeouts ensures that resources are
    never tied up indefinetly. 

    - Limitting the number of outstanding requests from a client to a service: 
    Impose an upper bound on the number of outstanding requests that a client 
    can make to a particular service. If the limit has been reached, it's probably pointless to make additional requests, and those attempts should 
    fail immediately. 
    
    - Circuit breaker pattern: Track the number of successful and failed requests, and if the error rate exceeds some threshold, trip the circuit 
    breaker so that further attempts fail immediately. 

Netflix Hystrix is a popular libray for implementing these patterns in JVM paltforms. 

##### Recovering from an unavailable service 

Using a library such as Hystrix is only part of the solution. You also must 
decide on a case-by-case how your services should recover from an unresponsive 
remote service. One option is simply for a service to return an error to its client.

In other scenarios returning a fallback value or a cached response, may make sense.

#### Using Service Discovery 

How to find the remote services when their IP addresses are dynamically 
assigned?. Service Discovery.  

The concept of service is quite simple: its key component is the service 
registry, which is a database of the network's locations of an application's 
service instances.  

The service discovery mechanims updates the service registry when services 
start and stop. When a client invokes a service, the service discovery 
mechanism queries the service registry to obtain a list of available service 
instances and routes the request to one of them.

There are two main ways to implement service discovery: 

    - The services and their clients interact directly with the service registry 
    - The deployment infrastructure handles discovery


##### Application level service discovery patterns 

This approach to service discovery is a combination of two patterns. 

The first patternn is the Self Registration pattern. A service instance 
invokes the service registry's registration API to register its network 
location. It may also supply a healthcheck URL


* Pattern: Self Registration, a service instance registers itself with the service registry

A service registry may periodically require a service instance to invoke 
a "heartbeat" API to prevent its registration period from expiring.

The second patter is the client side discovery pattern. When a client service
wants to invoke a remote service it queries the service registry to obtain 
a list of service instances. Then the service client uses a load-balancing 
algorithm, such as round-robbin or random to select instances

* Pattern: Client-Side discovery, a service client retrieves a list of available service instances from the service registry and load balances accross them.


##### Platform provided service discovery patterns 

modern deployment platforms such as Docker and Kubernetes have a built-in 
service registry and service discovery mechanism. The deployment platform
gives each service  a DNS name, a virtual IP address (VIP), and a DNS name 
that resolve to the VIP address.

* The platform is responsible for service registration, discovery and request routing. Service instances are registered with the service registry by the registrar. Each service has a network location, a DNS name /virtual IP address. A client makes a request to the service network location. The router queries the service registry and load balances requests accross the avaiable service instances.


This approach is a combination of two patterns: 

    - 3rd party registration pattern: Instead of a service registering itself 
    with the service registry, a third party called the registrar, which is 
    typically part of the deployment platform handles the registration. 

    - Server-side registry pattern: Instead of a client querying the service 
    registry, it makes a request to a DNS name, which resolves to a request router that queries the service registry.

* Pattern: 3rd Party registration: Services are automatically registered by a third party. 

* Pattern: Server-side discovery, a client makes a request to a router which is responsible for the service discovery.

The key benefit of platform-provided service discovery is that all aspects 
of service discovery are entirely handled by the deployment platform. 
Neither the services nor the clients contain any service discovery code.

One drawback of this approach is that it only support the discovery of the 
services provided by the same platform.


### Communicating using the Asynchronous messaging pattern

#### Overview of messaging 

An application writes messages to a channel and a receiver application 
reads messages from that channel. 

A message consists of a header and a message body. the header is a collection 
of name value pairs that describe the data being sent.

There are several different kinds of messages: 
    - Document: A generic message that contains only data 
    - Command: A message that is the equivalent of an RPC request 
    - Event: A message indicating that something notable has occurred in 
    the sender. An event is often a domain event, which represents a state 
    change of a domain object such as Order, or a Customer.

* About message channels: 

Messages are exchanged over channels. The business logic in the sender invokes
a sending port interface, which encapsulates the underlying communication mechanism. 


* There are two kinds of channels 

    - Point-to-Point: It delivers messages to exactly one of the consumers 
    that is reading from the channel. Services use point-to-point for 
    one to one interaction styles

    - Publish-Subscribe: a publish subscribe channel delivers each message 
    to all the attached consumers. Services use publish-subscribe channels 
    for the one-to-many interactions styles.


* Implementing asynchronous request/response interaction style 

    - With messaging the clients sends a request to a request channel and 
    receives a response from a response channel. The service processes the 
    request and sends a reply message, which contains the outcome, to a point-to-point channel owned by the client.


* Implementing one way notifications: 

Implementing one way notification is straightforward with messaging, the client
sends a message, typically a command message, typically to a point-to-point 
channel owned by the service. The service subscribe to the channel and processes the message. it doesn't send back a reply.


* Implementing Publish/Subscribe: 

Messaging has built-in support for publish subscribe style of interaction. A client publishes a message to a publish subscribe channel that is read by 
multiple consumers.

* Implementing Publish/Async responses: 

The publish/async responses interaction style is a higher-level style of 
interaction that's implemented by combining elements of publish/subscribe
and request/response.

#### Creating an API specification for a message baseds service API 

The specification for a service asynchronous API must specify the names 
of the message channels, the message types that are exchanged over each 
channel, and their format.

There isn't a standard for documenting messaging APIs you'll have to write 
an informal one 


#### Using a message broker 

A messaging-based application uses a message broker, an infrastructure service
through with the messages are exchanged. The broker based architecture isn't the only messaging architecture. You can also rely to a brokerless architecture where the services communicate direcly with one another without 
a broker.

* Brokerless messaging: 

Here services communicate directly. ZeroMQ is a popular brokerless messaging 
technology. It's both a specification and a set of libraries for different 
languages. It supports a variety of transports, including TCP, UNIX-style 
domain sockets, and multicast.

The brokerless architecture has some benefits: 
    - Lighter network traffic and better latency, because messages go 
    directly from sender to receiver, instead of having to go from the 
    sender to the broker then to the receiver

    - It eliminates the possibility for the broker from becoming a performance
    bottleneck and a single point of failure

    - Features less operational complexity since there is no broker to 
    set up and maintain.

As appealing as these benefits may seem this architecture has significant 
drawbacks: 

        - Services need to know about each others location and use discovery
        mechanisms discussed earlier. 
        - It offers reduced availability since both the receiver and the sender of a message must be running for the message to be exchanged 

        - Implementing mechanisms such as garanteed delivery is challenging.


* Broker-based messaging: 

A broker is an intermediary through with all the messages flow. one benefit 
of using a broker based architecture is that sender need not to know the location of the receiver.

There are many message brokers to choose from: 

    - ActiveMQ (http://activemq.apache.org) 
    - RabbitMQ (https://rabbitmq.com) 
    - Apache Kafka (http://kafka.apache.org)

There are also cloud based messaging services such as AWS Kinesis and AWS 
SQS. 

* Factors to consider when selecting a message broker: 

    - Programming languages supported 
    - Supported messagin standards (AMPQ, STOMP or proprietary) 
    - Messaging Ordering: does the broker preserves messaging ordering 
    - Delivery guarantees: what kinds of delivery guarantees does the broker make
    - Persistence: Are messages persisted to disk an able to survive broker crashes
    - Durability: If a consumser reconnects to the broker, will it receive 
    the messages that were sent while it was disconnected? 
    - Scalability: How scalable is the message broker. 
    - Latency: What is the end-to-end latency? 
    - Competing consumers: Does the message broker support competing consumers?


* Benefits and Drawbacks of broker-based messaging: 

Benefits: 

    - Loose coupling: a client makes a request simply by sending a message 
    to the appropriate channel. The client is completely unaware of the 
    service instances 

    - Message buffering: The message broker buffer messages until they can 
    be processed

    - Flexible communication: Messaging supports all the interaction styles
    described

    - Explicit interprocess communication: RPC-based mechanism attempts to make invoking a remote service look the same as calling a local service


Downsides: 

        - Potential performance bottleneck 
        - Potential single point of failure 
        - Operational complexity 