# Transaction Management With Sagas 

This chapter covers: 
    - Why distributed transactions aren't good for modern applications
    - Using the Saga pattern to maintain data consistency in a microservice
    architecture 

    - Coordinating sagas using choreography and orchestration 
    - Using countermeasures to deal with lack of isolation 


The question that arise often when implementing a microservice architecture 
is how to deal with transactions that span many services?. 

Transactions are an important part of enterprise applications, without 
transactions

In a microservice architecture, transactions that are within a single service 
can still use ACID transactions. The challenge however lies in implementing 
transactions that update data owned by multiple services. 

* An operation that spans multiple services must use what's known as a saga, a message driven sequence of local transactions to maintain data consistency.

* One challenge with sagas is that they are ACD (Atomic, Consistent, Durable), They lack the "Isolation" property of other traditional ACID transactions. As a result an application must use countermeasures to prevent unintended side effects that stems from this lack of isolation


## Transaction Management In a microservice architecture 

### The need for distributed transation in a microservice architecture 

Updating data scattered accross multiple services. Because each service has 
its own database, you need to implement mechanisms to maintain data consistency
accross those databases.

### The Trouble with Distributed Transactions 

The traditional approach to maintaining data consistency accross multiple services, databases or message brokers is to use distributed transactions. 
The de factor standard for distributed transaction management is the X/Open 
Distributed Transaction Processing Model (DTP) Model. 

cfr book: the createOrder() operation reads data from the Consumer service and 
update data in Order Service, Kitchen Service and Accounting Service. 


* The Problem with distributed transaction is that modern database technologies do not support them. they also are not supported by modern message brokers such as RabbitMQ and Apache Kafka. As a result if you insist on using distributed txs that will be without many modern technologies. 

### Using Sagas to maintain data consistency 

Sagas maintain data consistency without having to rely on distributed transactions. Sagas use a sequence of local transactions that are coordinated 
using asynchronous messaging. 

An important benefit of asynchronous messaging is that it ensures that all the 
steps of the sagas are executed, even if one or more of the saga's participant 
is temporarily unavailable.

#### An Example of a Saga: The Create Order Saga 

The Order Service (cfr book) implements the createOrder() operation using 
this saga. the saga's first local transaction is initiated by the 
external request to create an order. The other five local transactions are 
each triggered by completion of the previous one. 

This Saga consists of the following local transactions: 

    1. Order Service: Create an Order in APPROVAL_PENDING state 
    2. Consumer Service: Verify that the consumer can place an order
    3. Kitchen Service: Validate order details and create Ticket in the 
    CREATE_PENDING 
    4. Accounting Service: Authorize consumer's credit card 
    5. Kitchen Service: Change the state of the Ticket to AWAITING_ACCEPTANCE 
    6. Order Service: Change the state of the Order to APPROVED


#### Sagas use compensating transactions to rollback changes 

Unlike traditional ACID transactions sagas can't automatically rollback 
transactions with the ROLLBACK statement available in many trad databases. 
you must write compensating transactions to deal with rollbacks. 

Suppose that the (n+1)th transacton of a saga fails. The effects of the previous n transactions must be undone. Conceptually each of those steps 
T(i) has a corresponding compensating transacton C(i), which undoes the effects
of T(i) which undoes the effects of T(i). to undo the effects of the first n 
steps the saga must execute each C(i) in reverse order.

The sequence of steps is T(1)...T(n), C(n)...C(1)

To see how compensating transactions are used, imaging a scenario where the 
authorization of the consumer's credit card fails. In this scenario, the saga 
executes the following local transactions: 

    1. Order Service: Create an order in APPROVAL_PENDING state 
    2. Consumer Service: Verify that the consumer can place an order 
    3. Kitchen Service: Validate Order details and create Ticket in CREATE_PENDING state 
    4. Accounting Service: Authorizes consumer's credit card which fails. 
    5. Kitchen Service: Change the state of Ticket to CREATE_REJECTED. 
    6. Order Service: Change the state of Order to REJECTED. 

The fifth and sixth steps are compensating transactions that undo the updates 
made by the kitchen service

## Coordinating Sagas 

A Saga's implementation consists of logic that coordinates the steps of a Saga.
There are a couple different way to coordinate a saga's steps: 

    - Choreography: Distribute the decision making and sequencing among the saga participants. They primarily communicate by exchanging events. 

    - Orchestration: Centralize a saga's coordination in an Orchestrator class. A saga orchestrator sends command messages to saga's participants
    telling them which operations to perform. 


### Choreography based sagas:

When using choreography, there's no central coordinator telling the saga's 
participants what to do. Instead, the saga participants subscribe to each 
other's events and respond accordingly

Cfr Book Figure 4.4: Each participant starting with the Order Service, updates
its database and publishes an event that triggers the next participant. 

The happy path: 

    1. The Order Service creates an Order in APPROVAL_PENDING state and publishes an OrderCreated event. 

    2. Consumer Service consumes the OrderCreated event, verifies that the consumer can place an order, and publishes a ConsumerVerified event 

    3. Kitchen Service consumes the OrderCreated event, validates the Order, 
    creates a Ticket in a CREATE_PENDING state, and publishes the TicketCreated event.

    4. Accounting Service consumes the OrderCreated event and creates a CreditCardAuthorization in a PENDING state. 

    5. Accounting Service consumes the TicketCreated and ConsumerVerified events, charges the consumer's credit card, and publishes the CreditCardAuthorized event.

    6. Kitchen Service consumes the CreditCardAuthorized event and changes the
    state of the Ticket to AWAITING_ACCEPTANCE

    7. Order Service receives the CreditCardAuthorized events, changes the state of the Order to APPROVED, and publishes an OrderApproved event. 

The Create Order saga must also handle the scanario where a saga participant 
rejects the order and publishes some kind of failure event.

The sequence of events is as follows:
    1 Order Servicecreates an Orderin the APPROVAL_PENDINGstate and publishes
    an OrderCreatedevent.

    2 Consumer Serviceconsumes the OrderCreatedevent, verifies that the con-sumer can place the order, and publishes a ConsumerVerifiedevent.

    3 Kitchen Serviceconsumes the OrderCreatedevent, validates the Order, creates
    a Ticketin a CREATE_PENDINGstate, and publishes the TicketCreatedevent.

    4 Accounting Serviceconsumes the OrderCreatedevent and creates a Credit-CardAuthorizationin a PENDINGstate.

    5 Accounting Serviceconsumes the TicketCreatedand ConsumerVerified
    events, charges the consumer’scredit card, and publishes a Credit Card
    Authorization Failedevent.

    6 Kitchen Serviceconsumes the Credit Card Authorization Failedevent and
    changes the state of the Ticketto REJECTED.

    7 Order Serviceconsumes the Credit Card Authorization faile event and changes the state of the Order to REJECTED.

As you can see, the participants of a choreography based sagas interact using
publish/subscribe.


### Orchestration-based Sagas


## Handling the lack of isolation 

The Isolation property of ACID transactions ensures that the outcome of 
executing multiple transactions concurrently is the same as if they were 
executed in serial order. 

The Challenge with using sagas is that they lack the isolation property 
of ACID transactions. That's because the updates made by each of a saga's 
local transactions are immediately visible to other sagas once that 
transaction commits

a saga transaction rather than being ACID is a ACD. 

        - Atomicity: The Saga implementation ensures that all transactions 
        are executed or all changes are undone.

        - Consistency: Referential integrity within a service is handled 
        by local databases. Referential integrity accross services is 
        handled by the services. 

        - Durability: handled by local databases. 

The lack of transaction isolation causes anomalies. an anomaly can occur 
when a transaction reads or write data in a way that it would'nt if transactions were executed at once. 

Countermeasures are a set of saga design strategies that help mitigate the 
lack of isolation.

### Overview of Anomalies 

The lack of isolation can cause the following three anomalies: 

    - Lost Updates: One saga overwrites without reading changes made 
    by another saga. 

    - Dirty reads: A transaction or a Saga reads the updates made by 
    a saga that has not yet completed those updates. 

    - Fuzzy/nonrepeatable reads: Two different steps of a saga read the 
    same data and get different results because another saga has made 
    updates. 

### Countermeasures to deal with the lack of isolation 

It's the responsibility of the developer to write sagas in a way that either 
prevents the anomalies or minimizes their impact on the business. 

    - Semantic Lock countermeasures: the use of *_PENDING to describe a 
    transaction status, it's an application level lock 

    - Commutative updates: Design updates operations to be executed in any order. 

    - Pessimistic view: Reorder the steps of a saga to reduce business risk. 

    - Reread value: Prevent dirty writes by rereading data to verify that it's
    unchanged before overwriting it.

    - Version file: Records the update to a record so that they can be reordered. 

    - By Value: use each request's business risk to dynamically select the 
    concurrency mechanism. 

#### The Structure of a Saga 

A Saga consists of three types of transactions: 

    - Compensatable transactions: transactions that can potentially be 
    rolled back using compensating transactions.

    - Pivot transaction: The go/no-go point in a saga. If the pivot transaction commits the saga will run until completion. A pivot 
    transaction can be a transaction that is neither compensatable nor 
    retriable. 

    - Retriable transactions: Transactions that follow the pivot transaction
    and are guaranteed to succeed.

#### Countermeasures in detail: 

1. Semantic Lock: 

When using the semantic lock countermeasure, a saga's compensatable transaction
sets a flag in any record that it creates or updates. The flag indicates 
that the transaction isn't committed and could potentially change.

The flag can either be a lock that prevent other transactions from accessing the record or a warning that indicates that other transactions should treat 
the record with suspicion. It's cleared by either a retriable transaction 
saga is completing


2. Commutative updates 

One straightforward countermeasure is to design the update operations to be
commutative. Operations are commutative if they can be executed in any order
An account debit() and credit() operations are commutative. 


3. Pessimistic view  

Another way to deal with the lack of isolation is the pessimistic view countermeasure. It reorders the steps of a saga to minimize business risk 
due to a dirty read. 

Consider the following scenario: 

    - the Create Order saga seen previously performs a dirty read of the 
    available credit and created an order that exceeded the consumer credit
    limit. to reduce the risk of this event happening the "Pessimistic View" 
    counter measure would reorder the Create Order saga as follows

        1. Order Service: Change the state of the order to cancelled. 
        2. Delivery Service: Cancel the delivery 
        3. Customer service: Increase the available credit

4. Reread value 

The reread value counter measures prevent lost updates. A saga that uses 
this countermeasure rereads a record before updating it, verifies that's unchanged, and then updates the record.


5. Version file 

The version file countermeasure is so named becuase it records operations 
that are performed on a records so as to reorder them. It's a way to turn 
noncommutative operations into commutative operations

6. By Value 

This countermeasure is a strategy for selecting concurrency mechanisms 
based on business risk. An application that uses this countermeasures uses
the property of each request to decide between using sagas and distributed 
transactions. 

This strategy enables an application to dynamically make trade-offs about business risk, availability and scalability.

### Case Study: The Design of the Create Order Service and The Create Order Saga

The service business logic consists of traditional business logic classes, 
such as Order Service and the Order entity. 

There are also saga orchestrator classes such as CreateOrderSaga class 
which orchestrates Create Order Saga. Also because Order Service participates
in its own sagas, it has an OrderCommandHandlers adapter class that handles 
comand messages by invoking OrderService.

1. The OrderService class

The OrderService is a domain service called by the service's API layer. 
it's responsible for creating and managing orders

```java 

// The OrderService class and it's createOrder() method 
@Transactional // ensures that the service methods are transactional
public class OrderService{

    @Autowired 
    private SagaManager<CreateOrderSagaState> createOrderSagaManager; 

    @Autowired 
    private DomainEventPublisher eventPublisher; 

    public Order createOrder(orderDetails orderDetails){
        ResultsWithEvents<Order> orderAndEvents = order.createOrder(...); 
        Order order = orderAndEvents.result; 
        orderRepository.save(order); 

        eventPublisher.publish(Order.class, Long.toString(order.getId()),
        orderAndEvents.events);

        CreateOrderState data = 
            new CreateOrderSagaState(order.getId(), orderDetails);
        createOrderSagaManager.create(data, order.class, order.getId()); 

        return order;
    }
}
```

### Summary 

-Some system operations need to update data scatterend accross multiple services, 
the traditional XA/2PC based distributed transactions aren't a good fit for 
modern applications. A better approach is to use the saga pattern. 

- A saga is a sequence of local transactions that are coordinated using messaging each 
local transaction updates data in a single service. Because each local transaction 
commits its changes, if a saga must roll back due to the violation of a business rule, 
it must execute compensenting transactions to explicitely undo changes. 

- You can use either choreography or orchestration to coordinate the steps of a 
saga. In a choreography based saga, a local transaction publishes events that 
trigger other participants to execute local transactions. In an orchestration based
saga a single coordinator class is responsible for sending command messages to participants
telling them to execute local transactions.

- Designing a saga based business logic can be challenging because, unlike ACID transactions sagas are isolated from one another. You must often use countermeasures, wich are design strategies that prevent concurrency anomalies caused by the ACID transaction model.
 