# Chapter 5: Designing business logic in a microservice architecture


This chapter covers: 
    - Applying the business logic organization patterns:
    Transaction script and domain model pattern 

    - Designing business logic with the Domain-driven-design 
    (DDD) aggregate pattern 

    - Applying the domain event in a microservice architecture.


## Business logic organization patterns 

In a typical hexagonal service, the service is surrounded by inbound and 
outbound adapters. 

    - inbound adapters: handle requests from clients and invoke the business logic 
    - outbound adapters: invoked by the business logic, they invoke other 
    services and applications 

There are two main patterns for organizing business logic: 
    - The procedural transaction script pattern, and the object oriented
    Domain model pattern 

### Designing business logic with the transaction script pattern 

When you're developing a simple buisiness logic. In such a situation a better
approach is to write procedural code and use the Transaction script pattern.

* Pattern Transaction Script: Organize the business logic as a collection of procedural transactions scripts, one for each type of request.

This is what you would create if you were writing an application in C or 
other non OOP languages. this is not a good approach to implementing 
complexi buisiness logic 

### Desgining business logic usgin the domain model pattern 

The simplicity of the procedural approach can be quite seductive. 
You can write out code without having to carefully consider how to organize classes. 

Transactions scirpts have the same problems as monoliths as your business 
logic becomes complex the you codebase ends up being messy and unmanageable. 

Unless you're writting an extremely simple application you should resist the 
temptation to write transaction scripts. you should rather consider applying 
the domain model pattern and develop and object oriented design.

* Pattern, Domain Model: Organize the business logic as an object model consisting of classes that have state and behavior. 


In an object-oriented design, the business logic consists of an object model, 
a network of relatively small classes. these classes typically correspond
directly to concepts from the problem domain.

Using an object-oriented design has a number of benefits. First the design is 
easy to understand and maintain. Instead of consisting of one big class that does everything, it consists of a number of small classes that each have a 
small number of responsibilities. 

Second an object-oriented design is easier to test 

* The domain model pattern works well, but there are number of problems with 
* this approach, especially in a microservice architecture. 
* to address these problems we need a refinement of OOD, called DDD

### About domain driven design 

Domain driven design is a refinement of object oriented design, it's an approach for designing complex business logic. 

In the context of services when using domain driven design each service 
has its own domain model, which avoids the problems of a single, application
wide domain model. Subdomains and the associated concept of bounded contexts 
are two of the strategic DDD patterns. 

DDD also has some tactical patterns that are building blocks for domain models.
Each pattern is a role that a class plays in a domain model and defines 
the characteristics of a class. 

The building blocks that are widely adopted by developers include the 
following: 

    - Entity: An object has a persistent identity. Two entities whose attributes have the same values are still different objects.

    - Value Objects: An object that is a collection of values. Two value objects whoes attributes have the same values

    - Factory: An object or method that implements object creation logic 
    that's too complex to be done directly by a constructor. It can also 
    hide the concrete classes that are instantiated

    - Repository: An object that provides access to persistent entities
    and encapsulates the mechanism for accessing the database. 

    - Service: An object that implements business logic that does'nt belong
     in an entity or a value object. 

### Designing a domain Model using the aggregate pattern 

A traditional domain model is a web of interconnected classes. It doesn't
explicitely specify the boundaries of business objects. 

* The problem with fuzzy boundaries 

Imagine that we want to perform an operation such as load or delete on a 
an Order business object. What exactly does that mean? what is the 
scope of the operation? you would certainly load or delete the Order object. 
but in reality there's more to an Order than simply the Order object. 
There are also the LineItems, the payment information, and so on. 
this leaves the boundaries of a domain object to a developer's intuition. 

Besides conceptual fuzziness, the lack of explicit boundaries causes problems 
when updating a business object. A typical business object has invariants that
must be enforced at all times

* Aggregates have explicit boundaries 

* Pattern, Aggregate: Organize a domain model as a collection of aggregates, 
* each of which is a graph of objects that can be treated as a unit. 

Aggregates decompose a domain model into chunks, which are individualy easier
to understand. They also clarify the scope of operations such as load, update
and delete. 
These operations act on the entire aggregate rather than on parts of it. 
An aggregate is often loaded in its entirety from the database, thereby
avoiding any complications of lazy loading. Deleting an aggegate remove 
all of its objects from the database. 

* Aggregates are consistency boundaries 

Updating en entier aggregate rather than parts of it solves the consistency 
issues, such as the example described in the book (two customers scenario cfr
book)

* Identifying an aggregate is key

In DDD, a key part of designing a domain model is identifying aggregates, 
their boundaries, and their roots. The details of the aggregate's internal
structure is secondary.

#### Aggregates Rules 

DDD requires aggregates to obey a set of rules. These rules ensure that an 
aggregate is a self contained unit that can enforce it's invariants


* RULE #1: Reference only the Aggregate Root 

The goal of the first aggregate rule is to eliminate the perisl of updating value objects 
Directly. it requires that the root entity be the only part of an aggregate rule 
that can be referenced by classes outside of the aggregate. A client can only update 
an aggregate by invoking a method on the aggregate root. 

=> A service, for example, uses a repository to load an aggregate from the database 
and obtain a reference to aggregate root. 

* RULE #2: Inter-Aggregate References must use primary keys 

Another rule is that aggregates referece each other by identity. instead of object references. 
For example, an Order object references its Consumer using a consumerId rather than a reference 
to the Consumer object. Similarly, and Order references a Restaurant using a restaurantId 

=> References between aggregates are by primary key rather than by object reference. 
The Order aggregate has the IDs of the Consumer and Restaurant aggregates. Within an aggregate, 
objects have references to one another. 

=> This approach is quite different from traditional object modeling, which considers 
foreign keys in the domain model to be a design smell. it has a number of benefits. 

    - The use of identity rather than object references means that aggregate are loosely coupled 
    - It ensures that aggregate boundaries between aggregates are well defined and avoid 
    accidentaly updating a different aggregate.

    - If an aggregate is part of another service, there isn't a problem of objects that 
    span services

    - This approach simplifies the persistence since the aggregate is the unit of storage. It makes it easier to store aggregates in NOSQL datbases like mongodb, it eliminates the need for transparent lazy loading and its assoticated problems, Scaling the database by sharding aggregates is relatively straightforward.


* RULE 3: One transaction creates or update one aggregate 

Another rule that aggregates must obey is that a transaction must update or create a single aggregate.  

=> A transaction can only create or update a single aggregate, so an application uses a saga 
to update multiple aggregates. Eeach step of the saga creates or updates one aggregate. 


#### Designing business logic with aggregates 

In a typical (micro) service, the bulk of the busineszs logic consists of aggregates. The rest 
of the business loggic resides in the domain services and the sagas. The sagas orchestrate 
sequences of local transactions in order to enforce data consistency. The services 
are the entry points into the business logic and are invoked by inbound adapters. 

### Publishing domain events 

In the context of DDD, a domain event is something that has happened to an aggregate. 
It's represented by a class in the domain model. An event usually represents a state change

Consider for example an Order aggregate in the FTGO app (cfr book) its state changing 
events include Order Created, Order Cancelled, Order Shipped, and so forth.

* Pattern: Domain Event 
* An aggregate publishes a domain event when it's created or undergoes some other 
* significant change 

#### Why publish change events? 

Domain events are useful because other parties (users, other applications, or other components 
within the same application) are often interested in knowing about an aggregate's 
state changes. 

Examples: 
    - Maintaining data consistency accross services using choreography-based sagas 
    - NOtifying a service that maintains a replica that the source data has changed, this approach is known as Command Query Responsibility Seggregation (CQRS) 
    - Notifying a different application via a registered webhook or via a message broker in 
    order to trigger the next step in a business process. 

    - Notifying a different component of the same application in order, for example, to send a Websocket message to a user's browser or update a text database such as Elasticsearch. 

    - Sending notifications, text messages or emails, to users informing them that their order has shipped, their Rx prescirption is ready for pick up, or their flight is delayed.



#### What is a domain event 

=> A domain event is a class with a name formed by using a past-participle verb. It has 
properties that meaningfully convey the event. Each property is either a primitive value or 
a value object. 

For example an OrderCreated event class has an orderId property. It might also have 
the identity of the user who made the change, because that's useful for auditing. 

```java 

interface DomainEevent{} 

class OrderCreated implements OrderDomainEvent {} 

class DomainEventEnvelope<T extends DomainEvent>{
    private String aggregateType; 
    private Object aggregateId; 
    private T event;
}

``` 

The domain event interface is a marker interface that identifies a class as a domain 
event. OrderDomainEvent is a marker interface for events, such as OrderCreated, 
which are published by the Order aggregate.

#### Event enrichment 

The concept of event enrichement is for events to contain information that consumers 
need. It simplifies event consumers because they no longer need to request that 
data from the service that published the event. In the OrderCreated event the 
Order aggregate can enrich the event by including the order details 

```java 

class OrderCreated implements OrderEvent{
    private List<OrderLineItem> lineItems; 
    private DeliveryInformation deliveryInformation; 
    private PaymentInformation paymentInformation; 
    private long restaurantId; 
    private Strgin restaurantName; 
}

```

Although event enrichment siplifies consumers, the drawback is that it risks making 
the event classes less stable. An event class potentially needs to change whenever 
the requirements of its consumer change. This can reduce maintainability because 
this kind of change can impact multiple parts of the application. 


#### Identifying domain events 

Often the requirements will describe scenarios where notifications are required. 
The requirements might include languages such as "When X happens do Y". for example 
in the context of the FTG application (cfr book) "When an Order is placed send the 
consumer an email". A requirement for a notification suggests the existence of 
a domain event. 

Another approach is to use event storming. Eevent storming is an event-centric workshop 
format for understanding a complex domain. It involves gathering domain experts in a 
room, lots of sticky notes, and a very large surface. The result of event storming i
s an event-centric domain model consisting of aggregates and events. 


#### Generating and publishing domain events 

Communicating using domain events is a form of asynchronous messaging, but before 
the business logic can publish them to a message broker, it must first 
create them. 

* Generating domain events: 

    => Conceptually domain events are published by aggregates. AN aggregate know 
    when its state changes and hence what event to publish. An aggregate could 
    invoke a messaging API directly. The drawback of this approach is that 
    because aggregates can't use dependency injection, the mssaging API would 
    need to be passed around as a method argument. That would intertwine 
    infrastructure concersn and business logic, which is extremely 
    unndesirable.  

    => A better approach is to split responsability between the aggregate and 
    the service (or equivalent class) that invokes it. Services can use 
    dependency injection to obtain a reference to the messaging API.

```java 

public class Ticket{
    public List<DomainEvent> accept(ZonedDateTIme readyBy){
        this.acceptTime = ZonedDateTime.now() 
        this.readyBy = readyBy 
        return singletonList(new TicketAcceptedEvent(readyBy));
    }
}

``` 

=> The service invokes the aggregate root's method, and then publishes the 
events. For example, the following listing shows how KitchenService invokes 
Ticket.accept() and publishes the events. 

```java 

public class KitchenService{
    @Autowired 
    private TicketRepository ticketRepository; 

    @Autowired 
    private DomainEventPublisher domainEventPublisher; 

    public void accept(long ticketId, ZonedDateTime readyBy){
        Ticket ticket = ticketRepository.findById(ticketId)
            .orElseThrow(() -> 
                new TicketNotFoundException(ticketId)); 

        List<DomainEevent> events = ticket.accept(readyBy); 
        domainEventPublisher.publish(Ticket.class, orderId, events);
    }
}

// the accept method first invokes the TIicketRepository to load the 
// Ticket from the database. IT then updates the Ticket by calling accept(). 
// KitchenService then publishes events returned by Ticket by calling 
// DomainEventPublisher.publish()

public class Ticket extends AbstractAggregateRoot{
    public void accept(ZonedDateTime readyBy){
        this.acceptTime = ZonedDateTime.now(); 
        this.readyBy = readyBy 
        registerDomainEevent(new TicketAcceptedEvent(readyBy));
    }
}
``` 

