# Testing

## The Go test tool

The go test subcommand is a test driver for Go packages that are organized according to certain
conventions. In a package directory, files whose names end with _test.go are not part of
the package ordinarily

==> Within the *_test.go files, three kinds of functions are treated specially: tests, benchmarks
and examples. A test function, which is a function whose name begins with Test, exercises some
program logic for correct behavior: go test calls the test function and reports the result.


==> A benchmark function has a name beginning with Benchmark and measures the performance of some
operation; go test reports the mean execution time of the operation.

==> An example function, whose name starts with example, provides machine-backed documentation

## Randomized Testing

Table-driven tests are convenient for chekcing that a funciton works on ijnputs
carefully selected to exercise interesting cases in the logic. Another approach,
randomized testing explores a broader range of inputs by constructing inputs at
random.

How do we know what output to expect from our funciton, given a random input? there
are two strategies. The first is to write an alternative implementation of the
function that uses a less efficient but simpler and clearer algorithm, and check
that both implementations give the same result.

```go

func randomPalindrome(rng *rand.Rand) string{
  n := rng.Intn(25) // random length up to 24
  runes := make([]rune, n)
  for i := 0; i < (n+2)/2; i++{
    r := rune(rng.Intn(0x1000)) // Random rune up to \u0999
    runes[i] = r
    runes[n-1-i] = r
  }
  return string(runes)
}

```

```go

func TestRandomPalindromes(t *tesing.T){
  seed := time.Now().UTC().UnixNano()
  t.Logf("Random seed: %d", seed)
  rng := rand.New(rand.NewSource(seed))

  for i := 0; i < 1000; i++{

  }
}


```

## Benchmarking: How fast our program runs

```go

func BenchmarkPalindrome(b *tesing.B){
  for i := 0; i < b.N; i++{
    IsPalindrome("a man, a plan, a canal: Panama")
  }
}

```

## Profiling

Making a slow program faster, profiling is the best technique for identifying
the critical code that needs to be optimized. it is an automated approach to performance
measurement based on sampling a number of profile events during execution, then extrapolating
from them during a post-processing step. the resulting statistical summary is
called a profile.

Go supports many kinds of profiling, each concerned with a different aspect of performance
but all of them involve recording a sequence of events of interrest, each of which has
an accopanying stack trace. the stack of function calls active at the moment of
the event.

A CPU profile identifies the functions whose execution requires the most CPU time.
The currently runnign thread on each CPU is interrupted periodically by the
operaing system every few milliseconds

A heap profile identifies the statements responsible for allocating the most memory.
The profiling library sample cals to the internal memory allocation routines so that
on average, on profile event is record per 512KB of allocated mempro

A blocking profile identifies the opearations responsible for blocking goroutines
the longest such as system calls, channel sends and receives, and acquisitions of locks.
