# Functions

## Variadic Functions

A variadic function is one that can be called with varying numbers of arguments.
The most familiar examples are fmt.Printf and its variants. Printf requires
one fixed argument at the beginning, then accepts any number of subsequent arguments

```go

func sum(values ...int) int{
  total := 0
  for _, value := range values{
    total += value
  }
  return total
}

```

Althouth the ...int parameter behaves like a slice within the function body,
the type of a variadic function is distinct from the type of a funciton with an
ordinary slice parameter.

```go

func f(...int){}
func g([]int){}

```


## 5.8 Deferred Function calls  

A defer statement is an ordinary function or method call prefixed by the
keyword "defer". The function and argument expression are evaulated when the
statement is executed, but the actual call is deferred until the function that contains
the defer statement has finished, whether normally, by executing a return statement
or failling off the end, or abnormally, by panicking.

```go

func lookup(key string) int{
  mu.Lock()
  defer mu.Unlock()
  return m[key]
}

```

The defer statement can also be used to pair "on entry" and "on exit" actions when
debugging a complex function. The bigSlowOperation function below calls trace immediately
which does the "on entry" action then returns a function value that,


## Panic  

Go's type system catches many mistakes at compile time, but others, like
an out-of-bounds array access or nil pointer dereference, require checks at run time.
When the Go runtime detects these mistakes, it panics.

During a typical panic, normal execution stops, all dereferred function calls in that
goroutine are executed, and the program crashces with a log message.

```go

func Reset(x *Buffer){
  if x == nil{
    panic("x is null") // unnecessary
  }
  x.elements = nil
}
```

Since a panic causes the program to crash, it is generally used for grave errors
such as logical inconsitency in the program; diligent programmers consider any
crash to be proof of a bug in their code. In a robust program;"expected" errors
, the kind that arise from incorrect input, misconfiguration, or failing I/O
should be handled gracefully; they are best dealt with errror values.


```go

func MustCompile (expre string) *Regexp{
  re, err := Compile(expr)
  if err != nil{
    panic(err)
  }
  return re
}
```

## Recover

Giving up is usually the right response to a panic, but not always,
It might be possible to recover in some way, or at least clean up the mess
before quitting. For example, a web server that encounters an unexpected problem
could close the connection rather than leave the client hanging and during
development.

Recovering from  a panic within the same package can help simplify the handling
of complex or unexpecte errors, but as a general rule you should attempt to recover
from another package's panic. Public API's should report failures as errors.
Similarly, you should not recover from a panic that may pass through a function
you do not maintain, such as a caller provided callback.

```go  

func soleTitle(doc *html.Node) (title string, err error){
  type bailout struct{}

  defer func(){
    switch p := recover(); p{
    case nil:
      // no panic
    case bailout{}:
      // Expected panic
      err = fmt.Errorf("multiple title elements")
    default:
      panic(p) // unexpected panic; carry on panicking
    }
  }()

  // Bail out of recursin if we find more than one non-empty title
  forEachNode(doc, func(n *html.Node){
    if n.Type == html.ElementNode && n.Data == "title" &&
    n.FirstChild != nil{
      if title != ""{
        panic(bailout{}) // multiple title elements
      }
      title = n.FirstChild.Data
    }
  }, nil)
  if title == ""{
    return "", ftm.Errorf("no title element")
  }
}
