# Methods

## Method Declaration

A method is declared with a variant of the ordinary function declaration in which
extra parameter appears before the function name. The parameter attaches the function
to the type of that parameter.

```go

import "math"

type Point {
  X, Y float64
}

func Distance(p, q Point) float64{
  return math.Hypot(q.X -p.X, q.Y - p.Y)
}

// same thing but as a method of the Point type
func (p Point) Distance(q Point) float64{
  return math.HyPot(q.X-p.X, q.Y - p.Y)
}

```

The extra parametr p is called the method's receiver, a legacy from early object
oriented languages that described calling a method as sending a message to an
object

In Go, we don't use a special name like this or self for the receiver; we choose
receiver names just as we would for any other parameter. Since the receiver name
will be frequently used, it's a good idea to choose something short and to be
consistent accross methods.


## Methods with a Pointer receiver

Because calling a function makes a copy of each argument value, if a function needs
to update a variable, or if an argument is so large that we wish to avoid copying it
we must pass the address of the variable using a pointer.


```go

type Point struct{
  X, Y float64
}

func (p *Point) Scalby(factor float64){
  p.X *= factor
  p.Y *= factor
}

```

In a realistic program, convention dictates that if any method of Point has a pointer
recieiver then all methods of Point should have a pointer receiver, even ones that don't
strictly need it.


## 6.2.1 Nil is a Valid Receiver valus

Just as functions allow nil pointers as arguments, so do some methods for
their reciever, especially if nil is a meaningful zero value of the type, as
iwth maps and slices. In this e

```go

// AN IntList is a linked list of integers
// A nil *IntList represents the empty list.
type IntList struct{
  Value int
  Tail *IntList
}

func (list *IntList) Sum() int{
  if list == nil{
    return 0
  }
  return list.Value + list.Tail.Sum()
}

```

When you define a type whose methods allow nil as a receiver value, it's worith
pointing this out explicitely.

## Example : Bit Vectory Type

Sets in Go are usually implemented as a map[T]bool where T is the element type.
A set represented by a map is very flexible but, for certain problems, a spcialized
representaton my outperform it. For example, in domains such as dataflow analysis
where set elements are small non-negative integers, sets have many elements, and set
operations like union and intersection are common, a bit vector is ideal

```go

//An IntSet is a set of small on-negative integers
// ITs zero value represents the empty set
type IntSet struct{
  words []uint64
}

// Has reports whether the set conains the non-negative value x.
func (s *IntSet) Has(x int) bool{
  word,  bit := x/64, uint(x%64)
  return word < len(s.words) && s.words[word]&(1<<bit) != 0
}

// Add adds the non-negative value x to the set
func (s *IntSet) Add(x int){
  word, bit := x/64, uint(x%64)
  for word >= len(s.words){
    s.words = append(s.words, 0)
  }
  s.words[word] |= 1 << bit
}

// UnionWith sets s to the union of s and t
func (s *IntSet) UnionWith(t *IntSet){
  for i, tword := range t.words{
    if i < len(s.words){
      s.word[i] |= tword
    } else{
      s.words = append(s.words, tword)
    }
  }
}

// String returns the set as a string o the form "{1 2 3}"
func (s *IntSet) String() string{
  var buf bytes.Buffer
  buf.WriteByte('{')
    for i, word := range s.words{
      if word == 0{
        continue
      }
      for j := 0; j < 64; j++{
        if word&(1 << uint(j)) != 0{
          if buf.Len() > len("{"){
            buf.WriteByte(' ')
          }
          fmt.Fprintf(&buf, "%d", 64*i+j)
        }
      }
    }
    buf.WriteByte('}')
    return buf.String()
}
