# Basic concepts

- Document: a document is the basic unit of data for MongoDB and is roughly
equivalent to a row in a relational database management system

- Similarly a collection can be tough of as a table with a dynamic schema

- A single instance of MongoDB can host multiple independent databases, each

- Every document has a special key "_id" that is unique within a collection

- MongoDB is distributed with a simple but powerful toll called the mongo shell
"mongosh" The mongo shell provides built-in support for administering
MongoDB instances and manipulating data using the mongodb query languages


## Documents

At the heart of mongodb is the document: An ordereed set of keys with associated
values. The representation of a document varies by programming language but most
languages have a data structure that is a natural fit (hash, map, dictionary)

{
  "greeting": "hello world"
}

Values in documents are not just blobs, they can be one of several different
data types (or even an entire embedded document). In this example the
value of greeting  is a string

=> The keys in a document are strings. Any UTF-8 character is allowed in a key
, with a few notable exceptions:

  - Keys must not contain the character \0 (the null character). This character
  is used to signify the end of a key

  - The . and $ characters have some special properties and should only be used
  in certain circumstances, as described in later chapters

=> Mongodb is type sensitive and case sensitive

these two documents are different

```json

{
  "count": 5
}
{
  "count": "5",
}

// These two are also different
{
  "count": 5
}
{
  "Count": 5
}
```

=> A final important thing to  note is that documents in MongoDB cannot contain
duplicate keys. For example, the following is not a legal document:

{
  "greeting": "Hello, world!",
  "greeting": "Hello, MongoDB",
}

## Collections

A collection is a group of document. a collection can be though of as a table
in an RDB

### Dynamic schemas

Collections have dynamic schemas, this means that in a single collection documents
can have varying shapes. both of the following for example could be stored in a
single document

```json

{"greeting": "Hello, world!!", "views": 3}
{"signoff": "Good night, and good luck"}
```

## Basic Operations With The Shell

We can use four basic operations, create, read, update, and delete (CRUD)
to manipulate and view data from the shell

### Create

The insertOne function adds a document to a collection. For example suppose we
want to store a movie, we'll create a local javascript variable called movies
to store the key and values of the object

```js

movie = {
  "title:" "Star Wars: Episode IV - A New Hope",
  "director": "George Lucas",
  "year": 1977
}

>db.movies.insertOne(movie)

>db.movies.find().pretty()// return the inserted object
{
"_id" : ObjectId("5721794b349c32b32a012b11"),
"title" : "Star Wars: Episode IV - A New Hope",
"director" : "George Lucas",
"year" : 1977
}
```


### Read

The findOne method can be used to query a collection. If we just want to see
one document from a collection, we can use findOne:

```js

db.movies.find()
db.movies.findOne()

```


## Data Types

Documents in MongoDB are conceptually similar to JSON or Javascript objects
There are only six types available in JSON, (null, boolean, numeric, array and object)
This is a good thing since it's easier to remember and on the other hand a negative
since it limits the expressivness of JSON
