# Querying

- You can query for ranges, set inclusions, inequalities, and more by using
$ conditionals  

- Queries return a database cursor, which lazily returns batches of documents
as you need them

- There a lot of meta operations you can perform on a cursor, including
skipping a certain number of results, limiting the number of results returned
and sorting results


## Introduction to find

The find method  is used to perform queries in MongoDB. Querying returns
a subset of documents in a collection, from no documents at all to the
entire collection. Which document gets returned is determined by the
first argument of find

An empty document matches everything in the collection. if find isn't given
a query document, it defaults to {}

```js

db.c.find()

```

matches every document in the collection c (and returns these documents in batches)
When we start adding key/value pairs to the query document, we begin restricting
our search.

```js

db.users.find({"age": 27})
```

If we have a string we want to match, such as "username" key with the value
"joe", we use that key/value pair instead:

```js

db.users.find({"username": "joe"})

```


### Specifying which key to return

Sometimes you do not need all of the key/value pairs in a document returned.
If this is the case, you can pass a second argument to "find" (or "findOne")
specifying the keys you want. This reduces both the amount of data sent over
the wire and the time and memory used to decode data on the client side.

```js

db.users.find({}, {"username": 1, "age": 1})

```

Setting the values of keys to 0 or 1 exclude or include the fields in the returned
result.
Let say we want to return a user without the "fatal_weakness" field, our query
would look like this

```js

db.users.find({}, {"username": 1, "_id": 0})
```

### Limitations


There are some restrictions on queries. The value of a query document must
be a constant as far as the database is concerned. (It can be a normal variable)
in your own code. That is, it cannot refer to the value of another key in
the document.

For example, if we were keeping inventory and we had both "in_stock" and "num_sold"
keys, we couldn't compare their values by querying the following.

```js

db.stock.find({"in_stock": "this.num_stock"}) // doesn't work

```

### Query Criteria

Queries can go beyond the exact matching described previously, they can
match more complex criteria, such as ranges, OR-Clauses, and negation

#### Query Conditionals

"$lt", "$lte", "$gt",  "$gte" are all comparison operators, corresponding to
<, <=, > and >=, respectively. They can be combined to look for a range
of values. for example

```js

db.users.find({"age": {"$ge": 18}, {"$lte": 30}});

```

These types of range queries are often useful for dates.

```js

start = new Date("01/01/2007");
db.users.find({"registered": {"$lt": start}});

```

To query for documents where a key's value is not equal to a certain value,
you must use another conditional operator, "$ne", which stands for "not equal".

```js

db.users.find({"username": {"$ne": "joe"}});

```

#### "OR" Queries

There are two ways to do an OR query in MongoDB. "$in" can be used to query
for a variety of values for a single key. "$or" is more general; it can be
used to query for any given values accross multiple keys.

If you have more than one possible value to match for a single key, use an
array of criteria with "$in".

Suppose we're running a raffle and the winning ticket numbers are 725, 542 and
390. To find all three of these documents, we can construct the following query

```js

db.raffle.find({"ticket_no": {"$in": [725, 542,  390]}});

```

$in is very flexible and allows you to specify criteria of different types as
well as values. For example, if we are gradually migrating our schema to  
use usernames instead of user ID numbers, we can query for either by using this:

```js

db.users.find({"user_id": {"$in": [12345, "joe"]}});

```

$in gives you an "OR" query for a single key, but what if we need to find
documents where "ticket_no" is 725 or "winner" is true? For this type of
query, we'll need to use the "$or" conditional. $or takes an array of possible
criteria

```js

db.raffle.find({"$or": [{"ticket_no": 725}, {"winner": true}]})
```


$or can contain other conditionals. If for example, we want to match any  
of the three "ticket_no" values or the "winner" key, we can use this

```js

db.raffle.find({"$or": [{"ticket_no": {"$in": [725, 542, 390]}}, {"winner": true}]})
```

#### Regular Expressions

"$regex" provides regular expression capabilities for pattern matching strings
in queries

```js

db.users.find({"name": {"$regex": /joe/i}});

```

Regular expression flags are allowed but not required. If we want to match
not only various capitalizations of "joe", but also "joey", we can continue
to improve our regular expression

```js

db.users.find({"name": /joey?/i});

```
