# Complex Business Logic

Building blocks of DDD: Value Objects, aggregates and Domain Services

## Value object

A value object is an object that can be identified by the composition of its
values.

```go

type Color struct{
  Red uint
  Green uint
  Blue uint
}

func Constructor(red uint, green uint, blue uint) *Color{
  return &Color{
    Red : red,  
    Blue: blue,
    Green: green,
  }
}

func (c *Color) MixWith(other Color){
  return &Color{
    Red: math.Min(c.Red + other.Red, 255),
    Green: math.Min(c.Green + other.Green, 255),
    Blue: math.Min(c.Blue + other.Blue, 255),
  }
}


func (c *Color) Equals(other *Color){
  return c.Red == other.Red && c.Green == other.Green && c.Blue == other.Blue
}


```
The composition of the values of the three fields, red, green, and blue defines
a color, changing the value of one

From a business domain perspective, a useful rule of thumb is to use value objects
for the domain's elements that describe properties of other objects. This namely
applies to properties of entities.

Other examples of using value objects include various statuses, passwords and
more business domain specific concepts that can be identified by their values
and thus do not require an explicit identification field.

An especially important opportunity to introduce a value object is when modeling mony and other monethary values.

## Entities

An entity is the opposite of a value object. It requires an explicit identification field to distinguish between the different instances of the entity. A trivial example of an entity is a person

```go

type Person struct{
  PersonId uint
  Name string
  }     

```

The central requirement for the identification field is that it shoould be unique
for each instance of the entity: for each person, in our case.

Furthermore; except for very rare exceptions, the value of an entity identification
field should remain immutable throughout the entity's lifecycle.

=> Contrary to value objects, entities are not immutable and are expected to change
Another difference between entities and value objects is that value objects is
that value objects describe an entity's properties.


## Aggregates

An aggregate is an entity: it requires an explicit identification field and
its state is expected to change during an instance lifecycle. Howevr, it is
much more than just an entity. The goal of the pattern is to protect the
consistency of its data.

==> Consistency Enforcement: Since an aggregate state can be mutatd, it creates
an opening for multiple ways in which its data can become corrupted. To enforce
consistency of the data, the aggregate pattern draws a clear boundary between
the aggertate and its outer scope       

==> From an implementation perspective, the consistency is enforced by allowing
only the aggregate's business logic to modify its state.

```go

type Ticket struct{}

var messages []Message

func (t *Ticket) AddMessage(from User, string body){
  var message  = &Message{
    From: from,
    Body: body
  }


  messages = append(messages, message)
}

func (t *Ticket) Execute(cmd AddMessage){
  var message = &Message{
    From: cmd.From,
    Body: cmd.Body,
  }
}
```

An aggregate's public interface is responsible for validating the input and
enforcing all of the relevant business rules and invariants. This strict boundary
also ensures that all business logic related to the aggregate is implemented in
one place: the aggregate itself.


```go

type ExecutionResult struct

func (e ExecutionResult) Escalate(ticketId uint, reason string)error {
  var ticket = ticketRepository.Load(ticketId)
  var cmd  = &Escalate{Reason: reason}
  err := ticket.Execute(cmd);
  if err != nil{
    return err
  }
  err = ticketRepository.Save(ticket)
  if err != nil{
    return err
  }

  return err

}

```

==> Since an aggregate's state can only be modified by its own business logic.
The aggregate also acts as a transactional boundary. All changes to the aggregate's
state should be committed transactionally as one atomic operation. If an aggregate's
state is modified, either all changes are committed or none of them is.


===> Hierarchy of entities: We don't use entities as an independent pattern,
only as part of an aggregate.
==> Entities are the building block of an aggregate rather than of the overarching domain
model.

==> There are business scenarios in which multiple objects should share a transactional
boundary; for example, when both can be modified simultaneously or the business rules
of one object depend on the state of another object.

==> DDD prescribes that a system's design should be driven by its business domain.
Aggregates are no exception. To support changes to multiple objects that have to
be applied in one atomic transaction, the aggregate pattern resembles are hierarchy
of entities.


```go

type Ticket struct{
  Messages []Message
  Products []Product
  AssignedAgent uint `gorm:"foreign_key"`
  CustomerId  uint `gorm:"foreign_key"`
}

type Message struct{
  Attachements []Attachment
}

```

==> The Aggregate Root: An aggregate's state can only be modified by executing
one of its commands. Since an aggregate represents a hierarcy of entities,
only one of them should be designated as the aggregate's public interface.
The aggregate root.

## Domain Events  

A domain event is a message describing a significant event that has occurred
in the business domain. for example:

  - Ticket assigned
  - Ticket escalated
  - Message Received

Since domain events describe something that has already happened, their names
should be formulated in the past tense.

The goal of a domain event is to describe what has happened in the business
domain and provide all the necessary data related to the event.

==> Domain events are part of an aggregate's public interface. An aggregate
publishes domain events. Other processes, aggregates, or even external
systems can subscribe to and execute their own logic in response to the domain
events.

```go

type Ticket struct {}

func (t *Ticket) Exectute(cmd RequestEscalation){
  if (t.IsEscalated && t.RemainingTimePercentage <= 0){
    t.IsEscalated = true
    var escalatedEvent = &TicketEscalated{ID: cmd.Id, Reason: cmd.Reason},
  }
}

```

## Ubiquitous Language

Last but not least, aggregates, should reflect the ubiquitous language.
The terminology that is used for the aggregate's name, its data members,
its actions, and its domain events all should be formulated in the bounded context's
ubiquitous language.

## Domain Services

==> Sooner or later, you may encounter business logic that either doesn't belong
to any aggregate or value object, or that seems to be relevant to multiple aggregates.
In such cases, domain driven-design proposes to implement the logic as a domain service.


==> A domain service is a stateless object that implements the business logic
In the vast majority of cases, such logic orchestrates calls to various components
of the system to perform some calculation or analysis.


```go

type ResponseTimeFrameCalculationService {}

func (rt *ResponseTimeFrameCalculationService) CalculateAgentResponseDeadline(
  userId uint,
  priority Priority,
  escalated bool,
  startTime DateTime
) float {
   policy := departmentRepository.GetDepartmentPolicy(userId)
   maxProcTime = policy.GetMaxResponseTimeFor(priority)

   if escalated{
     maxProcTime = maxProcTime * policy.EscalationFactor;
   }

   shifts := departmentRepository.GetUpcomingShifts(userId,
   startTime, startTime.Add(policy.MaxAgentResponseTime))

  return CalculateTargetTime(maxProcTime, shifts)
}

```

Domain services make it easy to coordinate the work of multiple aggregates.
How ever, it is important to always keep in mind the aggregate pattern's limitation
of modifying only one instance of an aggregate in one database transaction.

## Conclusion

The domain model pattern is aimed at cases of complex business logic. It consists
of three main building blocks:

  - Value Objects:
    - Concepts of the business domain that can be identified exclusively by their values
    and thus do not require an explicit ID field. Since a change in one of the fields
    semantically creates a new value

  - Aggregates:

      - A hierarchy of entities sharing a transactional boundary. All of the data
      included in an aggregates boundary has to be strongly consistent to
      implement its business logic.

  - Domain Services:

      A stateless object that hosts business logic that naturally doesn't belong
      to nay of the domain model's aggregates or value objects.
