# Query Primer

### Subquery

```sql
SELECT concat(cust.last_name', ', cust.first_name) full_name
FROM
(SELECT first_name, last_name, email
FROM customer
WHERE first_name = 'JESSIE') cust;
```

### Temporary Tables

These tables look just like permanent tables, but any data inserted into a
temporary table will disappear at some point (generally at the end of a
  transaction or when your database session is closed). Here's a simple example

```sql

CREATE TEMPORARY actors_j
  (actor_id smallint(5),
  first_name varchar(45),
  last_name varchar(45));
```

### Views

A view is a query that is stored in the data dictionary. It looks and acts like
a table, but there is no data associated with a view. (It's a virtual table).
When you issue a query against a view, your query is merged with the view
definition to create a final query to be executed.

```sql

CREATE VIEW cust_vw as
SELECT customer_id, first_name, last_name, active FROM customer;
```

When the view is created, no additional data is generated or stored, the server
simply tucks away the select statement for future use. Now that the view exixsts,
you can issue queries against it, as in:

```sql

SELECT first_name, last_name
FROM cust_vw
WHERE active = 0;
```

### Table Links

The second deviation from the simple from clause definition is the mandate
that if more than one table appears in the from clause, the conditions used to
link the tables must be included as well.

```sql

SELECT customer.first_name, customer.last_name,
time(rental.rental_date) rental_time
FROM customer
INNER JOIN rental
ON customer.customer_id = rental.customer_id
WHERE date(rental.rental_date) = '2005-06-04';
```

### Aliases

```sql

SELECT c.first_name, c.last_name,
time(r.rental_date) rental_time
FROM customer c
INNER JOIN rental r
ON c.customer_id = r.customer_id
WHERE date(r.rental_date) = '2005-06-04';
```

### The WHRE clause

When you want to filter out rows of a certain table, the WHERE clause is the where
clause is the appropriate mechanism for filtering out unwnanted rows from your
result set.


```sql

SELECT title
FROM film
WHERE rating = 'G' AND rental_duration  >= 7;
```

### The ORDER BY clause

If you want your result set to be sorted, you will need to instruct the server
to sort the results using the order by clause:

The order by clause is the mechanism for sorting your result set using either
raw column data or expressions based on column data.
