### Querying Multiple Tables


Joining two tables sql92 join flavor

```sql

SELECT c.first_name, c.last_name, a.address
FROM customer c INNER JOIN address a
ON c.address_id = a.address_id
WHERE a.postal_code = 52137;

```

The same query pre 92 would look like this

```sql
SELECT c.first_name, c.last_name, a.address
FROM customer c, address a
WHERE c.address_id = a.address_id AND
a.postal_code = 52137;
```

The first version is more understandable.  

### Joining More than two tables

Joining three tables is similar to joining two tables, but with one slight wrinkle.
With a two-table join, there are two

#### Does Join Order Matter?

SQL is a non-procedural language, meaning that you describe what you want to retrive
and wich database objects need to be involv ed, but it is up to the database server
to determine how best to execute your query.

If however you belive that the tables in you query should always be joined in a particular
order, you can place the tables in the desired order and then specify the keyword
STRAIGHT_JOIN in MYSQL, request the force order option in SQL Server, or
use either the ORDERED or the LEADING optimizer hint in Oracle Database.

```sql

SELECT STRAIGHT_JOIN c.first_name, c.last_name, ct.city
FROM city ct
  INNER JOIN address a
  ON a.city_id = ct.city_id
  INNER JOIN customer c
  ON c.address_id = a.dress_id

```

#### Using Subqueries as Tables

```sql

SELECT c.first_name, c.last_name, addr.address, addr.city
FROM customer c
INNER JOIN
  (SELECT a.address_id, a.address, ct.city
  FROM address a
      INNER JOIN city ct
      ON a.city_id = ct.city_id
  WHERE a.district = 'Califronia') addr

ON c.address_id = addr.address_id;

```

WHile this query can be written in a much simpler way, without a subquery
it can sometimes be advantageous from a performance and/or readability aspect
to use one or more subqueries.


## Self-Joins

Not only you can include the same table more than once in the same query, but you
can actually join a table to itself.  
Some tables include a self-referencing foreign key, which means that it includes a
column that points to the primary key within the same table.
