# Subqueries

A subquery is a query contained with_ing another SQL statement. A subquery
is always enclosed within parentheses, and it is usually executed prior to the
containing statement.

A subquery returns a result that may consist of:
  - A single row with a single column
  - Multiple rows with a single colum
  - Multiple rows having multiple columns


```sql

SELECT customer_id, first_name, last_name
FROM customer
WHERE customer_id = (SELECT MAX(customer_id) FROM customer);
```

### Subquery types

Some subqueries are completely self-contained (called noncorrelated subqueries),
While others reference columns from the containing statement (called correltaed subqueries)
The next several sections explore these two subquery types and show the different
operators that you can employ to interact with

#### noncorrelated subqueries

A non-correltaed subquery is executed alone and does not reference anything from
the containing statemnt. Most subqueries that you encoutnter will be of This
type unless you are writing update or delete staments.

```sql

SELECT city_id, city
FROM city
WHERE country_id <>
(SELECT country_id FROM country WHERE country = 'India');
```

#### Multiple-Row, Single-Column Subqueries

If your subquery returnds more than one row, you will not be able to use it on
one side of an equality condition, as the previous example demonstrated. Howebver
there are four additional operators that you can use to build conditions with
these types of subqueries.

* THe In and NOT IN Operators

```sql

SELECT country_id
FROM country
WHERE country IN ('Canada', 'Mexico');
```

You can use the NOT IN operator to check the converse condition

```sql

SELECT city_id, city
FROM city
WHERE country_id NOT IN
(SELECT country_id
FROM country
WHERE country IN ('Canada', 'Mexico'));
```

#### The ALL OPerator

While the IN operator is used to see whether an expression can be found within
a set of expressions, the all operator allows you to make comparisons between a
single value and every value in a set.  

```sql

SELECT first_name, last_name
FROM customer
WHERE customer_id <> ALL
(SELECT customer_id
FROM payment
WHERE amount = 0);

```

When using the NOT IN or <> ALL to compare value to a set of values,
you must be careful to ensure that the se't of values does not contain a null
value, because the server equates the value on the left hand side of the expression
to each member of the set, and any attempt to equate a value to null yields
uknown.

```sql

SELECT first_name, last_name
FROM customer
WHERE customer_id NOT IN (122, 452, NULL);

```

Here's another example using the all operator, but this time the subquery is in
the having clause:

```sql

SELECT customer_id, count(*)
FROM rental
GROUP BY customer_id
HAVING count(*) > ALL
(SELECT count(*)
  FROM rental r
  INNER JOIN address a
  ON c.address_id = a.address_id
  INNER JOIN city ct
  ON a.city_id = ct.city_id
  INNER JOIN country co
  ON ct.country_id = co.country_id
  WHERE co.country IN ('United States', 'Mexico', 'Canada')
  GROUP BY r.customer_id);

```

#### The Any Operator

Like the all operator, the any operator allows a value to be compared to the members
of a set of values, unlike all, however, a condition using the any operator
evaluates to true as soon as a single comparison is favorable.

```sql

SELECT customer_id, sum(amount)
FROM payment
GROUP BY customer_id
HAVING sum(amount) > ANY
(SELECT sum(p.amount)
  FROM payment p
  INNER JOIN customer c
  ON p.customer_id = c.customer_id
  INNER JOIN city ct
  ON a.city_id = ct.city_id
  INNER JOIN country co
  ON ct.country_id = co.country_id
WHERE co.country_ IN ('Bolivia', 'Paraguay', 'Chile')
GROUP BY co.country);

```

#### Multicolumn Subqueries

In certain situations, you can use subqueries that return two or more columns.
To show the utility of multicolumn subqueries, it might help to look first at
an example that uses multiple, single-column subqueries:

```sql

SELECT fa.actor_id, fa.film_id
FROM film_actor fa
WHERE fa.actor_id IN
(SELECT actor_id FROM actor WHERE last_name = 'MONROE')
AND fa.film_id IN
(SELECT film_id FROM film WHERE rating = 'PG');

```

Unlike a noncorrelated subquery, a correlated subquery is not executed once
prior to execution of the containing statement; instead, the correlated subquery
is executed once for each candidate row (rows that might be included in the final result)

```sql

SELECT c.first_name, c.last_anme
FROM customer c
WHERE 20 =
(SELECT count(*) FROM rental r
WHERE r.customer_id = c.customer_id);

```

Along with equality conditions, you can use correlated subqueries in other types
of conditions, such as the range condition:

```sql

SELECT c.first_name, c.last_name
FROM customer c
WHERE
(SELECT sum(p.amount) FROM payment p
WHERE p.customer_id = c.customer_id)
BETWEEN 180 AND 240;

```

### The Exists Operator

While you will often see correlated subqueires used in equality and range
conditions, the most common operator used to build conditions that utilizes
correlated subqueries is the exists operator.

You use the EXISTS operator when you want to identify that a relationship
exists without regard for  the quantity.

```sql

SELECT c.first_name, c.last_name
FROM customer c
WHERE EXISTS  
(SELECT 1 FROM rental r
WHERE r.customer_id = c.customer_id
AND date(r.rental_date) < '2005-05-25');
```

Using the exists operator, your subquery can return zero, one, or many rows
and the contition simply checks whether the subquery returned one or more rows.

```sql

SELECT c.first_name, c.last_name
FROM customer c
WHERE EXISTS
(SELECT r.rental_date, r.customer_id, 'ABCD' str, 2*3/7 nmbr
FROM rental r
WHERE r.customer_id = c.customer_id
AND date(r.rental_date) < '2005-05-25');

```

### Data Manipulation Using Correlated Subqueries

All of the examples thus far in the chapter have been select statments.
Subqueries are used heavily in update, delete and insert statements as well
with correlated subqueires appearing frequently in update and delete statements.

```sql

UPDATE customer c
SET c.last_update =
(SELECT max(r.rental_date) FROM rental r
WHERE r.customer_id = c.customer_id);

```

### Subqueries as Data Sources

Since a subquery generates a result set containing rows and columns of data,
it is perfectly valid, to include subqueries in your from clause along with
tables.

```sql

SELECT c.first_name, c.last_name,
pymnt.num_rentals, pymnt.tot_payments
FROM customer c
INNER JOIN
(SELECT customer_id,
  count(*) num_rentals, sum(amount) tot_payments
  FROM payment
  GROUP BY customer_id ) pymnt
ON c.customer_id = pymnt.customer_id;
```
