# What are microservices

Microservices are independently releasable services that are modeled around
a business domain. A service encapsulates functionality and makes it
accessible to other services via networks.


## Modeled around a business domain

Techniques like domain-driven design can allow you to structure your code to better
represent the real-world domain tha tthe software operates in. With microservice
architectures, we use this same idea to define our service boundaries.

## Size

A microservice should be kept to the size at which it can be easily understood.
The concept of size is highly contextual.

## The Monolith

### Single-Process Monolith

The most common example that comes to mind when discussing monoliths is a
system in which all of the code is deployed as a single process.

### The modular Monolith

The modular monolith is a variation in which the single process consists of
separate modules. Each module can be worked on independently, but all still
need to be combined together for deployment.

One of the chalenges of a modular monolith is that the database tends to lack
the decomposition we find in the code level, leading to significant challenges
if you want to pull apart the monolith in the future.

### The distributed monolith

A distributed monolith is a system that consist of multiple services, but for
whatevver reason, the entire system must be deployed together. A distributed
monolith might well meet the definition of an SOA, but all too often, it fails
to deliver on the promises of SOA.


### Log Aggregation and Distributed Tracing

With the increasing number of processes you are managing, it can be difficult
to understand how your system is behaving in a production setting. This can
in turn make troubleshooting much more difficult.

=> The implementation of a log aggragation system is primordial in a microservice
architecture.

## Containers and Kubernetes

Ideally, you want to run each microservice instance in isolation. This ensures
that issues in one microservice can't affect another microservice.

## Streaming

Although with microservices we are moving away from monolithic databases, we
still need to find ways to share data between microservices. This is happening
at the same time that organizations are wanting to move away from batch
reporting operations and toward more real-time feedback.


# Advantages of Microservices

## Technology Heterogeneity

With a system composed of multiple, collaborating microservices, we can decide
to use different technologies inside each other. this allows us to pick the right
tool for each job rather than having to select a more standardized, one-size-fits
all approach that often ends up being the lowest common denominator.

## Robustness

A key concept in improving the robustness of your application is the bulkhead.
A component of a system may fail, but as long as that faillure doesn't cascade,
you can isolate the problem, and the rest of the system can carry on working.

Service boundaries become your obvious bulkheads. In a monolithic service, if
the service fails, everything stops working.

## Scaling

With large, monolithic service, we need to scale everything together. Perhaps
one small part of our overall system is constrained in performance, but if
that behavior is locked up in a giant monolithic application, we need to
handle scaling everything as a piece.

## Organizational alignment

Microservices allow us to better align our architectue to our organization, helping
us minimize the number of people working on any one codebase to hit the sweet sopt
of team size and productivity. Microservices allow us to change ownership of
services as the organization changes.

## Composability.

One of the key promises of distributed systems and service-oriented architecture
is that we open up opportunities for reuse of functionality.


# Microservice Pain Points

## Developer experience  

As you have more and more services, the developer experience can begin to suffer.
More resource-intensive runtimes like the JVM can limit the number of microservices
that can be run on a single developer machine.

## Technology Overload

The sheer weight of the new technology that has sprung up to enable the adoption
of microservice architectures can be overwhelming.

Microservices may well give you the opton for each microservice to be written in a
different programming language, to run on a different runtime, or to use a
different database. but these are options not requirements. You have to carefully
balance the breadth and complexity of the technology you use against the costs
that a diverse array of technology can bring.

When you start adopting microservices, some fundamental challenges are inescapable
you'll need to spend a lot of time understanding issues around data consistency,
latency, service modeling and the like.

## Reporting

With a monolithic system, you typically have a monolithic database. This means
that stakehlders who want to analyze all the data together, often involving
large join operatons accross data, have  a ready-made schema against wich
to run their reports.

## Data consistency

The use of distributed transactions in most cases proves to be highly problematic
in coordinating state changes.

Instead, you might need to start using concepts like sagas and eventual
consistency to manage and reason about state in your system.
