# How to model microservices

## What Makes a good Microservice boundary

### Information Hiding
  - service components have to make few assumptions about how other services
  work, this allows to make changes in one service without significantly affect
  others

  - Information hiding describes a desire to hide as many details as possible
  behind a module.

  => The benefits that this modular approach gives are the following:

    - Improved development time
    - Comprehensibility
      - Each module can be looked at in isolation and understood in isolation
      This in turn makes it easier to understadn what the system as a whole does.

    - Flexibility
        - Module can be changed independently from one another, allowing for
        changes to be made to the funcitonality of the systm without requiring
        other modules to change.

### Cohesion

  - One of the most succinct definitions I’ve heard for describing cohesion is this: “the
code that changes together, stays together.

### Coupling

When services are loosely coupled, a change to one service should not require
a change to another. The whole point of a microservice is being able to
make a change to one service and deploy it without need to change any other
part of the system.


## Types Of Coupling

### Domain Coupling

Domain coupling describes a situation in which one microservice needs to interact
with another microservice, because the first microservice needs to make use of the
functionality that the other microservice provides


### Common Coupling

Common coupling occurs when two or more microservices make use of a common
set of data. A simple and common example of this form of coupling would be
multiple microservices making use of the same shared dataase, but it could
also manifest itself in the use of shared memory or a shared file system.

The main issued with common coupling is that changes to the structure of the
data can impact multiple microservices at once.

Common coupling becomes more problematic, though if the structure of the common
data changes more frequently, or if multiple microservices are reading and
writing to the same data.

One way to ensure that the state of something is changed in a correct fashion
would be to create a finite state machine. A state machine can be used to
manage the transition of some entity from one state to another, ensuring
invalid state transitions are prohibited.

>The example below illustrates an overview of the allowable state
transitions for an order in MusicCorp (cfr book)

==> PLACED ==> PAID ==> PICKING ==> SHIPPED
==> PLACED ==> CANCELLED
==> PLACED ==> PAID ==> CANCELLED  
==> PLACED ==> PAID ==> PICKING ==> CANCELLED

One would ensure that a single microservice is responsible for updating
the state machine, and send status update requests to other adjacent services.

## Content Coupling

Content coupling describes a situatio in which an upstream service reaches
into the internals of a downstream service and changes its internal state.
The manifestation of this is an external service accessing another microservice's
database and changing it directly.
The differences between content coupling and common coupling are subtle. in
both cases two or more microservices are reading and writing to the same
set of data.

## Just enough domain driven design

The primarry mechanism we use for finding microservice boundaries is around
the domain itself, making use of domain-driven design (DDD) to help create
a model of our domain.

### Event Storming

Event storming is a collaborative brain storming exercise designed to
help surface a domain model. Rather than having an architect sit in a corner
and come up with their own representation of what the domain model is.,
event storming brings together technicl and nontechnical stake-holders in
a joint exercise.

Domain modesl defined through event storming can be used to implement
event driven systems and indeed, the mapping is very straightforward, you can
alos use such a domain model ot build a more request/response-oriented system.
