# Integration  

Getting integration right is the single most important aspect of the technology
associated with microservices. In the context of microservices integration refers
to the process of managing communication and exchange of data between microservices.

# Some Considerations before we start

## The Ideal Integration Technology

There is a vas array of options out there for how one microservice can talk to
another. (REST, SOAP, GRPC, etc.). Let's  deep deeper to find which is
more appropriate in a given context.

### Avoid Breaking Changes

When selecting the tool for interservice integration, it is necessary that
we avoid picking technologies that requires end consumers of services to make
changes whenever a change is made inside the service.

### Keep your APIs technology-Agnostic

It is important to ensure that you keep the APIs used for communication between
microservices technology-agnostic. This means avoiding integration technology
that dictates what technology stacks we can use to implement our microservices.

### Make your service simple for consumers

Ideally, we'd like to allow our clients full freedom in their technology of choice
but on the other hand, providing a client library can ease adoption. Often however
such libraries are incompatible with other things we want to achieve.

### Hide Internal Implementation Detail

We don't want our consumers to be bound to our internal implementation. This leads
to incresed coupling. this means that if we want to chang something inside our
micro service, we can break our customers by requiring them to also change.
That increases the cost of change

## Interfacing with customers

Let's look at some of the most common option to interface with other services
in a system

### The Shared Database

The most common form of integration seen in the industry is database integration
. If other services want information from a service, they reach into the database.
And if they want to change it they also reach into the database. this form
of integration should be avoided at all cost.

First we are allowing external parties to view and bind to internal implementation
details.

Second, my consumers are tied to a specific technology choice. Perhaps it
makes sense to use an RDBMS now, but what if we need to denormalize, to use
a NoSQL database?

Finally lets think about behaviour for a moment. There is going to be logic
associated with how the customer is changed. Where is that logic? if consumers
are directly manipulating the DB, then they have to own the associated logic.
The logic to perform the same sorts of manipulations to a customer may now
be spread among multiple consumers.

Database integration violates two of the core principles of microservices, namely
strong cohesion and loose coupling

## Synchronous VS Asynchronous


With synchronous communication a call is made to a remote server, which blocks
until the operation completes. With asynchrounous communication, the caller does not
wait for the operation to complete before returning and may not even care whether
or not the operation completes at all.

Synchronous communication can be easier to reason about. We know when things
have completed successfully or not. Asyncrhonous communication can be very useful
for long running jobs, where keeping a conection open for a long period of time
between a server and a client is impractical. It also very well indicated when
you need low latency.

These two different modes of communication can enable two different idiomatic
styles of collaboration: request/response or event based.

- With request/response a client initiates a request and wait for a response.
This model aligns well with synchronous communication but can also work with
asynchronous communication too.

- With an event based collaboration we invert things. Instead of a client initiating
requests asking for things to be done, it instead says things that happened and expects
other parties to know what to do.

One important factor to consider when picking one style of service integration
over the other is to consider how well it is suited to solving an often complex
problem: how to handle processes that span service boundaries and may be long
running.

## Orchestration VS Choreography

As we start to model more and more complex logic, we have to deal with the
problem of managing business processes that span beyond the boundaries of
a single service.

With orchestration, we rely on a central brain to guide and drive the process,
much like a conductor in an orchestra. With choreography, we inform each part
of the system its job, and let it work out the details, like dancers all finding
their way and reading to others in a ballet.

In the context of an ecomerce platform for example for creating a new customer
with an orchestration approach we would have the customer service act as the
central brain. On creating it talks to the  loyalty points banks, email service
and post service through a series of requests/response calls.

With a choreographed approach, we could instead just have the customer service
emit an event in an asynchronous manner saying CUSTOMER_CREATED. The email
service, postal service and loyalty points banks then just subscribe to these
events and react accordingly

In general systems that tend more toward the choreographed approach are more
loosely coupled, and are more flexible and amenable to change. You need
to do extra work to monitor and track the process accross system boundaries,
however. In contrary most heavily orchestrated implementations of microservices
are extremely brittle, with a higher cost of change.

Synchronous calls are simpler, and we get to know if things worked straight away.
On the other hand, asynhcronous event collaboration helps us adopt a choreographed
approach, which can yield significantly more decoupled services.


## Remote Procedure Calls

Remote procedure calls refer to a technique of making a local call and having it
execute on a remote service somewhere.

Compared to database integration, RPC is certainly an improvement when we think
about options for request/response collaboration. But there's another option to
consider.

## REST

This architectural styles was inspired by the Web. This approach has many
constraints and principles but we are going to focus on those that will help
us face integration challenges in the microservice world.

The most important concept in REST based architecture is that of resources.
You can think of a resource a thing that the service itself knows about like
a Customer. The server creates different representations of this Customer on
request.

How a resource is shown externaly is completely decoupled from how its stored
internally.

The REST based approach is heavily reliant on the HTTP protocols although it
can be implemented with other protocol, combination with HTTP is the most
pervasive in the industry. Some of the features that HTTP gives us as part
of the specification such as verbs, make implementing REST over HTTP easier
whereas with other protocols you'll have to handle these features yourself.

### Downsides of REST Over HTTP

In terms of ease of consumption, you cannot easily generate a client stub
for your REST over HTTP application protocol like you would with RPC

Some web frameworks don't support all the HTTP verbs well. That means it might
be easier to create GET or POST handlers but you'll have to jump through hoops
to create PUT or DELETE handlers.

Performance migth also be an issue. REST over HTTP payloads can actually be
more compact than SOAP because it supports alternative formats like JSON or
even binary but it will still be nowhere as lean as a binary protocol as thrift or
protobuf.

HTTP, while it can be suited well to large volumes of traffic, isn't great for
low latency requirements when compared to alternative protocols that are
built on top of TCP/IP

## Implementing Asynchrounous Event-Based Collaboration

### Technology choices

There are two main parts we need to consider here: a way for our microservices
to emit events, and a way for our consumers to find out those events happened.

Traditionally message brokers like RabbitMQ or Kafka try to handle both problems
Producers use an API to publish an event to the broker. The broker handles
subscriptiosn, allowing consumers to be informed when an event arrives. These
brokers can even handle the state of consumers

### Complexities of Asynchronous Architectures

Event-driven architectures seem to lead to significantly more decoupled,
scalable systems. And they can. But these programming styles do lead to an
increasing complexity.

## Reactive Extensions

Reactive extensions, often shortened to Rx, are a mechanism to compose the results
of multiple calls together and perform operations on them. The calls themselves
could be blocking or non blocking calls. At its heart, Rx inverts traditional flows.
Rather than asking for some data, then performing operations on it , you observe
the outcome of an operation (or set of operations) and react when something changes.

## DRY and the perils of code reuse in a Microservice World

DRY more accurately means that we want to avoid duplicating our system behavior
and knowledge. This is a very sensitive advice in general. but in the context
of microservices this can be deceptive.

DRY is what leads us to create code that can be reused. We pull duplicated code
into abstractions that we can then call from multiple places. Perhaps we go as
far as making a shared library that we can use everywhere. This approach is
very dangerous in microservices.

One of the things we want to avoid at all costs is overly coupling a microservice
and consumers such that any small change to the microservice itself can cause
unnecessary changes to the consumer. sometimes however the use of shared code can
create this very coupling.

As a rule of thumb in general: don't violate the DRY principle within a microservice
but be relaxed about violating DRY accross all services. This evils of too much
coupling between services are far worse than problems caused by code duplication.

## Versioning

How to make change to the interface of a service

### Defer it for as long as possible

The best way to reduce the impact of making breaking changes is to avoid making
them in the first place. You can achieve much of this by picking the right
integration technology, as we've discussed throughout this chapter

### Catch breaking changes early

It's crucial to make sure we pick up changes that will break consumers as soon
as possible, because even if we choose the best possible technology, breaks
can still happen.

### Use Semantic Versioning

With semantic versioning each version is in the form MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH
When the MAJOR number increments, it means that backward incompatible changes
have been made. When MINOR increments, new funcitonality has been added that
should be bakcward compatible. Finally, a change to PATCH states that bug fixes
have been made to existing functionality.

### Coexist different endpoints

One approach to handle breaking changes is to coexist both the old and the
new interfaces in the same running service. So if you want to release a breaking
change, we deploy a new version of the service that exposes both the old and the
new versions of the endpoint

### Use Multiple Concurrent Service Versions

Another versioning solution often cited is to have different versions of the service
live at once, and for older consumers to route their traffic to the older version,
with newer versions seeing the new one.

## User interfaces

The user interface, after all is where we'll be pulling all these microservices
together into something that makes sense to our customers.

### Towards Digital

Web and mobile should no longer be treated differently; they should instead
be thought of as digital solutions more holistically. What is the best way
for customers to use our services. And what does it do to our system architecture.

User interfaces are compositional layers, places where we weave together the
various strands of the capabilities we offer. How

### Constraints

Constraints are the different forms in which our users interact with our system.
On a desktop or mobile application, for example, we consider constraints such as
what browser visitors are using, or their resolution.

Although our core services - our core offering might be the same, we need a way
to adapt them for the different constraints that exist for each type of interface.
When we look at different styles of user interface composition, we need to ensure
that they address this challenge.

When we look at different styles of user interface composition, we need to ensure
that they address this challenge. Here are a few models of user interfaces to
see how this might be achieved.


### API Composition

Assuming the services already speak XML or JSON, API composition have the user
interface interact directly with the APIs. A web-based UI could just use
Javascript GET requests to retrieve data or POST requests to change it.
even for native mobile applications, initiating HTTP communication is fairly
straightforward.

The UI would then need to recreate various components that make up the interface
handling synchronization of state and the like with the server

There's a couple of downsides with this approach:
  - Little ability to tailor the responses to different sorts of devices
  - Who creates the user interface: are they far removed from those who create the servers
  logic?
  - This communication style could be very chatty (multiple requests), and could
  lead to an inefficient use of customer bandwidth

### UI Fragment Composition

Rather than having our UI make API calls and map everything back to UI controlls
we could have our services provide parts of the UI directly, and then just pull
these fragments to create a UI.

A variation of this approach that can work well is to assemble a series of coarse
grained parts of a UI. so rather than creating small widgets, you are assembling
entire panes of a thick client application, or perhaps a set of pages for a
website.

### Backends for Frontends

A common solution to the problem of chatty interfaces with backend services,
or the need to vary content for different types of devices, is to have
a server side aggregation endpoint or API gateway. This can marshall multiple
backend calls

This approach can lead to disasters when the server side endpoints become
thick layers with too much behavior. They end up getting managed by separate
teams and being another place where logic has to change whenever some
functionality changes.

To alleviate this the backend for frontends pattern aims to restrict the use
of any backend to one specific user interface. This pattern allows the team
to solely focus on any given UI to also handle its own server-side component.

The danger with the BFF approach is that it can tak on logic it shouldn't. The
business logic for the various capabilities these backends use should stay in
the services themselves.

### A Hybrid Approach

Many of the aforementioned options don't need to be one-size-fits-all.
an organization can adopt the approach of fragment based assembly bo create
a website, but using a BFF approach when it comes to its mobile application.


## Integrating with 3rd Party Software

Build if it is unique to what you do, and  can be considered strategic asset;
buy if the tool you use isn't that special.

There are a few problems that may arise when integrating with 3rd party Software

### Lack of Control

One challenge associated with integrating with and extending the capabilities
of COTS (Commercial Of the Shelf) products like CMS or SaaS is that typically
all the technical decisions have been made for you.

### Customization

Beware! Often due to the nature of the tool chain you have access to, the
cost of customization can be extremely expensive than building something
bespoke from scratch.

### Integration spaghetty

Another challenge is how you integrate with the tool. Ideally you want to
standardize on a small number of types of integration. But what if
one product decides to use  a proprietary binary protocol, another some flavor
of SOAP or XML-RPC? what are you left with? this can lead to the same coupling
issues discussed earlier.

### On Your Own Terms

The core idea is to do any customization on a platform you control, and limit
the number of different consumers of the tool itself.

### The Strangler Pattern

When it comes to legacy or even COTS platform that aren't under your control
we have to deal with cases were you want to remove them or at least move away
from them. The Strangler pattern is a useful pattern to consider, with this
pattern you capture and intercept calls to the old system. This allows you
to decide whetther to route those calls to the legacy code or the new code you
may have written. this allows you to replace functionality over time without
requiring a big rewrite

## Summary

- Avoid database integration at all costs
- Understand the tradeoffs between REST and RPC but strongly consider REST
as a good starting point for request/response integration
- Prefer choreography over orchestration
- Avoid breaking changes and the need  to version by understanding Postel's law
and using tolerant readers
- Think of user interfaces as compositional layers.
