# Splitting The Monolith

## Have A Goal

Microservices are not the goal. You don't win by having microservices. Adopting
a microservice architecture should be a conscious decision. one based on
rational decision making. You should be thinking of migrating to a microserv ice
architecture only if you can't find any easier way to move toward your end
goal with your current architecture.

Without a clear, goal, it becomes difficult to know where to start. Which
microservice should you create first? Without an overarching understanding of
what you are trying to achieve, you're flying blind.

## Incremental Migration

An incremental approach will help you learn about microserices as you go and
will also limit the impact of getting something wrong. Think of the monolith
as a block of marble. We could blow th whole thing up, but that rarely ends well.

## The monolith is rarely the Enemy

The monolith can be a totally valid choice, it isn't inherently bad and therefore
should'nt be viewed as the enemy. Don't focus on not having a monolith.

It is common for the existing monolithic architecture to remain after a shift
toward microserives, albeit often in a diminished capacity. For example, a move
to improve the ability of the application to handle more load might be satisfied by
removing the 10% of functionality that is currently bottlenecked, leaving the
remaining 90% in the monolithic system.

By making your migration to microservices an incremental journy, you are able to
chip away at the existing monolithic architecture, delivering improvmenets along
the way, while also, importantly knowing when to stop.

In surprising rare circumstances, the demise of the monolith might be a hard
requirement. this can be often limited to situations in which the existing
monolith is based on dead or dying technology., is tied to infrastructure that needs
to be retired., or is perhaps an expensive third-party system that you want to ditch.

## The Dangers of Premature Decomposition

There is danger in creating microservices when you have an unclear understaning of
the domain. Prematurely decomposing a system into microservices can be costly
especially if you are new to the domain. In many ways having an existing
de.

## What to split First

Once you have a firms graps on why you think microservices are a good idea, you
can use this understanding to help prioriteze which microservices to create first.  

If you want to scale the application for example you should focus on the functionality
that currently constraints the system's ability to handle load.

Want to improve time to market? Look at the system's volatility to identify those
pieces of functionality that change most frequently, and see if they would work
as microservices. You can use static analysis tools to find volatile parts of
your code base.

Fundamentaly, the decision about which functionality to split into a microservice
will end up being a balance between how easy the extraction is versus the benefit
of extracting the microservice in the first place.

A good rule of thumb is to take care of the low hanging fruits first i.e microservices
that lean a bit more toward the eady end of the spectrum.

## Decomposition by Layer

So you've identified your first microservice to extact; what next?, We can
break that decomposition down into further, smaller steps.

If we consider that the tranditonal three tiers of a web-based service stack,
then we can look at the functionality we want to extract in terms of its user
interface, backend application code, and data.


### Code First

Extracting the application code tends to be easier than extracting things from
the database. If we found that it was impossible to extract the application code
cleanly, we could abort any further work, avoiding the need to detangle the
database.

### Data First

In this case the data is extracted before the application code. This
approach is rarely seend, but it can be useful in situations in which you
are unsure whether the data can be separated cleanly.

The main benefit of this approach in the short term is derisking the full
extraction of the microservice. It forces you to deal up front with issues
like loss of enforced data integrity in your database or lack of transactional
operations accross both sets of data.

## Useful Decomposiiton Patterns

A number of patterns can be useful in helping break apart an existing system.
Many of these are explored

### Strangler Fig Pattern

Inspired by a type of plant, the pattern describes the process of wrapping an old
system with the new system over time, allowing the new system to taker over more
and more features of the old system incrementaly.

Practically this pattern is implemented by intercepting calls to the existing
system, an interception layer takes care of routing calls to either the exissting
system or the newer one. If the call to a piece of funcitonality is implemented in our
new architecture, it is redirected to the microservice. If the call is
still provided by the monolith, the call is allowed to continue to the monolith
itself.

The beauty of this pattern is that it can often be done without making any
changes to the underlying monolithic application. The monolith is unaware that it
has even been wrapped with a newer system.

### Parallel Run

When switching from functionality provided by an existing tried and tested application
architecture to a fancy new microservice-based one, there may be some nervousness
especially if the funcitonality being migrated is critical to an organization. 

One way to make sure the new functionality is working well without risking the existing
system behaviour is to make use of the parallel run pattern: running both your
monolithic implmentation of the functionality and the new microservice implementation
side by side, serving the same requests, and comparing the results.

### Feature Toggle

A feature toggle is a mechanism that allows a feature to be switched off or on,
or to switch between two different implmeentations of some funcitonality.

As with the strangler fig pattern, we'll often leave the existing functionality
in place in the monolith during the transition, and we'll want the ability
to switch between versions of the functionality, the functionality in the
monolith and that in the new microservice. With the strangler fig pattern example
of using an HTTP proxy, we could impmelent the feature toggle in the proxy layer
to allow for a simple control to switch between implementations.

## Data Decomposition Concerns


### Performance

Database, especially RDBs, are good at joining data accross different tables.
When we split databases apart in the name of microservices, we end up having
to move join operations from the data tier up into the microservies themselves.
This approach does not provide the same speed RDBs do.

### Data Integrity

Database can be useful in ensuring integrity of our data. With both the
Album and Ledger tables being in the same database, we could define a
foreign key relationship between rows of two tables when both tables are stored
in the same database.

With tables now living in different databases, we no longer have enforcement
of the integrity of the data model.

One will have to be used to the fact that one can no longer rely on the
database to enforce the integrity of inter-entity relationships.

### Transactions

Concepts like sagas discussed in upcoming chapters are an alternative to handle
state changes accross multiple microservices. but they come with new sources
of complexity.

### The Reporting Database

With a reporting database, we instead create a dedicated database that is
designed for external access, and we make it the responsibility of the microservice
to push data from internal storage to the externally accessible database.

The reporting database allows us to hide internal state management, while
still presenting the data in a database.
